battle of algiers An extraordinary movie that ruffled many feathers when it first came out . Almost 40 years later , it retains the poignancy it delivered back then . You wo n't soon forget the face of Brahim Haggiag , who plays the revolutionary leader Ali as if he were channeling the misery of colonialism into a solitary stare of accusatory outrage . A riveting reconstruction of the struggle for independence in mid-50s Algiers , its pseudo-documentary style still feels as headline-fresh as its content . gripping , relevant cinema ... Irish film , `` Bloody Sunday , '' borrowed its entire structure from `` Algiers . '' Both a how-to manual for guerrilla terrorism and a cautionary tale about how to fight it . It 's also quite possibly the finest war film ever made . This lesson in modern warfare is not only instructive to the Pentagon 's military but is of considerable value to any generation 's fascination with law , order , anarchic behavior and classic story-telling technique . Pontecorvo has nearly accomplished the impossible : to make an epic film that convinces the viewer he is watching the real thing . The most electrifyingly timely movie playing in New York was made in 1965 . A timelessly powerful film . Vital and disquieting , this is a powerful depiction of the pity of war . As shocking today as it was on the day of its release . 	A powerful , documentary-like examination of the response to an occupying force , The Battle of Algiers has n't aged a bit since its release in 1966 .
54 Sanitised and dramatically inept retelling of the history of one of the great sleazy success ( and failure ) stories . Best head out to a nightclub instead . The plotting and pacing are so relentlessly predictable that the film does n't even work well as a sociology lesson . Whatever you do , do n't waste your money on the superficial , cowardly 54 The movie is flat , logy , and amateurish -- a Scotch - tape- and - balsa - wood job . The new disco era film 54 is Fame on drugs , a low-grade Saturday Night Fever . Here we have a nightclub where Mick Jagger danced with Truman Capote , and the drama of the film is two bare-chested hunks shouting 'You 've changed , man ! ' while carrying tubs of dirty glasses . As a movie finally reaching its definitive state , `` 54 '' is a flawed endeavor , and clearly the work of someone new to the venture of making movies . But it all comes together in fascinating hindsight , . 54 is mediocre on almost all counts : acting ( with a couple of exceptions ) , writing , direction and cinematography are uniformly bland , inoffensive and completely unmemorable . A sanitized Boogie Nights . Mr. Christopher 's movie at times looks like a parody of the era , at other times like a celebration of a period haplessly gone by . 	Poor plot development and slow pacing keep 54 from capturing the energy of it 's legendary namesake .
footloose-2010 The most important thing this version has in common with the original is that the talking parts are too long and the dancing parts are too short . I 'm sure there are plenty of people who will say that the original version was so much better than this one and they may be right , but I 'm certainly in no hurry to prove it . 'I believe that any town where Dennis Quaid can wear pleated trousers should also be a town where kids can dance , ' says Ren . 'But first , I will prove my bona fides by racing a school bus encrusted with stuffed animals ! ' Footloose 2011 is harmless as far as it goes , but on the dance floor and off it never goes nearly far enough . Every dance sequence in the film is simply spectacular . Surprisingly enjoyable . Please do n't remake Flashdance , though . All in all , this is a film I attended with rock-bottom expectations , and came out of feeling elated . Once you 've seen the remake of Footloose , it really does n't seem like such a bad idea . [ W ] e have ... turned into four-year-olds who want to watch nothing but the same Blue 's Clues DVD over and over again ... You either go all the way with it or simply roll your eyes when confronted by its terrible , cynical crassness . 	While it hews closely to the 1984 original , Craig Brewer infuses his Footloose remake with toe-tapping energy and manages to keep the story fresh for a new generation .
gabrielle Talky but absorbing tale of dysfunction among the super-rich . A shocking , brilliantly original rumination on the subject of marital rot . Co-screenwriter/director Patrice Chereau does n't seem in any particular hurry with the pacing . He practically dawdles , which makes the whole thing feel longer than its relatively scant running time . Marriage noir with another devastating performance by Huppert that plumbs the depths of unhinged despair . Gabrielle reeks of the same snobbery it denounces in others . Patrice Chreau 's startling drama recounts the dissolution of a marriage of a couple ( Pascal Greggory and Isabelle Huppert ) from the haute bourgeoisie . As a couple , Jean and Gabrielle are a corseted waking nightmare . As co-stars , [ Isabelle ] Huppert and [ Pascal ] Greggory make a dream match . At once robust and ethereal , this is an existential ghost story , with fresh blood pulsing through its veins . A work of stunning intensity underneath opulent fabrics As loyal as Chreau 's film is to Conrad 's story , the director expands its point of view by giving more authority to the female experience Conrad suppresses in his text . 	Patrice Chreau 's exquisite rendering of Joseph Conrad 's The Return brings underlying passions to surface in a long-suffering marriage .
blues brothers A monument to waste , noise and misplaced cool , but it does have its engagingly nutty moments . The Blues Brothers is packed with lively music , fantastic chase sequences and nonstop slapstick comedy . I am never not amused by the Blues Brothers . Big , loud , often obnoxious , but surprisingly sweet-tempered . A classic for all time ! Call me sacrilegious , but I do n't think The Blues Brothers is all that great . This essentially modest movie is reported to have cost about $ 30 million , and what did all that money buy ? Scores of car crashes . Too many extras . Overstaged dance numbers . And a hollowness that certainly did n't come cheap . This long , expensive 1980 cult movie has an energy and individuality lacking in similar films nowadays . Though The Blues Brothers takes nothing seriously , it has seriously changed the landscape of comedic history and blues music forever . The film retains a huge nostalgic kick , thanks in large part to Aykroyd and Belushi 's easy rapport , a smattering of daft , shaggy humour and some truly iconic musical sequences . 	Too over the top for its own good , but ultimately rescued by the cast 's charm , director John Landis ' grace , and several soul-stirring musical numbers .
ghostbusters Thirty years later , there are still rumblings of making another sequel , but no one would dare suggest a reboot or re-imagining ; Ghostbusters is perfect exactly as it is . Whoever thought of having evil 's final manifestation take the form of a 100-ft. marshmallow deserves the rational mind 's eternal gratitude . Essentially a $ 30 million version of Abbott and Costello Meet the Mummy but not at all a bad time , thanks mainly to Bill Murray 's incredibly dry line readings and director Ivan Reitman 's maintenance of a moderately coherent tone and plotline . As entertaining today as it ever was , a classic to be treasured by all . A screwy and mischievous movie fueled by endless reserves of comic energy Ghostbusters thrives on the fine line between taking it all seriously enough to be scary , then poking fun at it in the most creative ways possible . It 's nowhere near as good as it 's supposed to be . Only intermittently impressive . Thirty years on , bustin ' still makes us feel good . In fact , few movies have the power to make us feel good-er . A fantasy , but with no touches of reality at all , to be enjoyed for its zany humour typical of the `` National Lampoon '' school from which several of its contributors are drawn . 	An infectiously fun blend of special effects and comedy , with Bill Murray 's hilarious deadpan performance leading a cast of great comic turns .
boy-a Director John Crowley , a veteran Irish theater director now working in film , is deliberate with every last element of his film . Emotionally searing ... .Thanks largely to Garfield 's heartfelt performance , Boy A becomes a powerful , poignant story of the difficulty of forgiveness . Crowley , his cast and the script constantly reveal new layers to the characters , preventing simple labels like 'hero ' or 'villain . ' These people are all cringingly human . ... [ Peter ] Mullan 's compassion and paternal protectiveness and [ Andrew ] Garfield 's buoyant performance ... bring a warmth to the otherwise grim drama . Mullen and Garfield fit well together -- both have faces you like on first sight , both have charm , both have warmth . It 's a sad movie , no question -- but like most great drama , it inspires admiration for its thoughtfulness and its craft . For all its sensitivity , thoughtful sobriety , and sound performances , though , Boy A finally permits itself an excessive number of contrived and/or clichd gestures . In director John Crowley 's wrenching drama , `` moving on '' proves to be an illusion . Even though the film is a narrative disappointment , it is possibly of interest for Garfield 's performance . The genius of Garfield 's performance is that he fills him with equal amounts of terror and wonder . 	Small in scale but large in impact , Boy A 's career making performances ( particularly that by star Andrew Garfield ) and carefully crafted characters defy judgment and aggressively provoke debate .
scooby doo 2 monsters unleashed Good-looking , mindless junk that 's apt to prove tedious to anyone over the age of 10 who is n't deeply entrenched in nostalgia for mediocre cartoons from his or her youth . A fairly watchable 88 minutes of filmmaking . Corrects many of the problems that plagued its predecessor and returns to the general feel and campy creativity of the animated series . It 's guileless , designed almost to be forgotten , and its modest intentions generate no resentment [ in the viewer ] . The first Scooby-Doo was a passably entertaining shambles . The sequel is just a shambles . The rapidly aging cast is clearly in it for the cash , with not a single one fully committed to the task . The smarter humor and in-jokes from the first are gone , which is going to lose a lot of the older audience . Monstrously silly . If we 're lucky , films like Scooby-Doo 2 will become the exception rather than the rule . ... just as silly , just as juvenile , just as inane , just as witless , just as dumb as the first movie . ( Blu-ray Double-Feature Edition ) 	Only the very young will get the most out of this silly trifle .
harold and maude Gives true romance a new meaning . weird , very very weird A classic of dark comedy . This darkly humorous , romantic comedy between an introvert adolescent and and old spunky woman , is playing it too safe to be considered truly anti-establishment , but it became a cult picture . By turns funny , moving and outrageous - sometimes all at once - the film is Hal Ashby 's masterpiece . Certainly a little twisted , but with such a powerfully warm 70 's sunflower heart , `` Harold and Maude '' endears . I think of it as the cinematic equivalent to `` The Little Prince '' A black comedy cult classic . Classic dark comedy that 's starting to show its age . One of the classic American romance stories Marked by a few good gags , but marred by a greater preponderance of sophomoric , overdone and mocking humor . 	Hal Ashby 's comedy is too dark and twisted for some , and occasionally oversteps its bounds , but there 's no denying the film 's warm humor and big heart .
crank Leave it alone , or leave your brain and pocket change at the gate , strap yourself in and just enjoy the ride . Snazzy but vacuous , the cinematic equivalent of a fast-food meal with thousands of calories but precious little nutrition . For moviegoers who found Running Scared a little too sedate . The most fun I 've had at the movies all year . It may be one of the loudest , most obnoxious ( not to mention sexist ) movies of the summer , but damned if it does n't keep an audience in high gear . Some of the directing touches are fun , but the Grand Theft Auto overdrive wears thin quick . Enjoyably fast-paced , gloriously trashy thriller with some inventive directorial touches . Vulgar , ridiculous , offensive and absolutely riveting . For all its busyness , Crank never develops much momentum , not least because an exploding heart does n't carry quite the same stakes as an exploding bus . Very noisy , severe on the eyes and ludicrous , but a decent example of mindless entertainment . 	It 's a film about a guy injected with Speed ... wait , there 's no bus . It 's a film about a guy who has to kick a bunch of squirmy butt to stay alive ... wait , no snakes or planes here . But it is a film about doing lots of drugs and pulling lots of punches , and it entertains accordingly .
house of wax 2005 House of Wax aims low and hits the mark . It has all the gory bloodshed you could ask for and all the right special effects . Not to focus too much on Paris Hilton , but she brings an art to bad acting . Expect lots of Slasher Movie 101 and putatively clever jibes at a certain high-profile hotel heiress ( involving a video camera , of course , and a box full of cell phones that do n't work ) . That 's hot . The remake of House of Wax anchors itself firmly in the time-honored tradition of horror exploitations . House of Wax is not a remake of the 1953 Vincent Price movie with the same title . Rather , it is the umpty-third version of The Texas Chain Saw Massacre . You 'll be rooting for these people to get slaughtered out of sheer boredom . Forty-five minutes of stultifying boredom , followed by preposterous carnage pilfered from The Texas Chainsaw Massacre . A script that offers few thrills and a slapdash story . The acting in House of Wax ranges from bad to worse . 	Bearing little resemblance to the 1953 original , House of Wax is a formulaic but better-than-average teen slasher flick .
dudley doright A big dud . In the end , it 's neither Dudley Do-Right nor Do-Wrong , but merely Dudley Do-Just-So-So . After the movie is over , Horse 's head appears through the screen as he sticks out his tongue to give it raspberries . My sentiments exactly . It has not sunk in yet in Hollywood that some cartoons are cartoons for a reason . '90s live-action remake of '60s cartoon has iffy humor . Fraser 's goofy mug may be the only thing that saves this film 's exhibitors from losing their theatres to mobs of unamused , torch-wielding patrons . Then again , it does n't seem like anyone 's even going to see this dreck , so maybe they 're off the hook . Pacing is slow in this comedy , as if actors are waiting -- along with the weary kids and adults in the audience -- for anyone to say something funny . We 're still waiting . When will Hollywood learn that successful animated concepts just do n't cut it when translated to flesh-and blood life ? What a let-down . You might simply die of boredom . 	Gags are n't that funny .
october sky This small , well-crafted coming-of-age docudrama is a real-life Revenge of the Nerds by way of Stand By Me . It is about four kids who build rockets , but it is a lot more than that . It is about having the guts to go for your dreams and not worrying about what other people think . Though shot in Tennessee , Johnston 's October Sky successfully evokes the stifling atmosphere of a blackened 1950s town in the southern West Virginia mountains . A compulsively watchable , well-crafted feature ... Director Joe Johnston has crafted a feel good film that does n't pander to cheap emotions . Immensely entertaining and unabashedly inspirational ! It 's good for inspiring , good to make you all misty-eyed and it 's commendable for making trigonometry more enticing than football . Believable , subtle , and consistently intelligent ! spirited , exciting entertainment that delivers on any number of levels - and you do n't have to be a youngster to enjoy it . October Sky is a bit schmaltzy and predictable . But that should n't keep anyone from enjoying this true-life saga of a boy whose dreams could not be confined by either gravity or convention . 	Rich in sweet sincerity , intelligence , and good old-fashioned inspirational drama , October Sky is a coming-of-age story with a heart to match its Hollywood craftsmanship .
paris je taime Even the least tales here flit by quickly enough to leave little bad aftertaste , and the best are savored like the last small bites of exquisite souffls . I suppose you can take the anthology as a sampling of Parisian atmospheres , but hardly anywhere is a place you 'd want to visit for long . ... a charming ode to the title city , less because of how it celebrates Paris ' romantic reputation than for the way it lovingly tweaks that image . Most features composed of sketches by different filmmakers are wildly uneven . This one is consistently mediocre , albeit pleasant and watchable . This is a film for people who love film ... [ A ] pleasing jumble of stories about love in Paris . You could n't call it perfect -- the episodes are uneven -- but it has something that sometimes is better than perfection : real love for its subject and themes . There seems to be something in Paris air or water that encourages compendium filmmaking -- multiple characters and multiple stories . Paris , Je T'Aime may be the grandest such work currently on view . The best episodes , however , have the emotional resonance of full-length features , and yet I did n't want them to be a moment longer than they are . You expect quality to vary from segment to segment , but the misses outweigh the hits by a depressingly high margin . 	Paris Je T'aime is uneven , but there are more than enough delightful moments in this omnibus tribute to the City of Lights to tip the scale in its favor .
crazy heart It 's not possible to flaw Bridges here . Akin to Falstaff , the detail of his characterisation - from stagger to cough to swagger to song - is fascinating . But he needs more thorough contextualisation to fly . ... we can almost taste the sour booze and smell the stale smoke ... It 's a shame then that the all-too-familiar story is never as engaging as the two leads , but with performances this strong , Crazy Heart still brings the house down . Cooper is so afraid of being bold and baring some soul , he achieves little more than the anachronistic , cookie-cutter blues that his lead character spent a lifetime trying to avoid . Ultimately what Crazy Heart will always be remembered for is the genuine and poignant performance from Bridges , who should be rewarded with an Oscar nomination in a couple of weeks . Who knows ? Maybe the fifth time will be the charm . First-time writer/director Cooper is a rare talent ; he knows how to keep his story fine-boned and small , and to write a truly complex , troubled character who nonetheless enters our hearts . All hail the small movie . ... the story here is Bridges and the title of that story is `` Brilliant ! '' It 's a bit too easy , a bit too familiar , and maybe even a bit too much fun . But the easy magic Bridges brings to the screen makes it all work . There 's nothing about the essential content of this film that 's artificial . 	Thanks to a captivating performance from Jeff Bridges , Crazy Heart transcends its overly familiar origins and finds new meaning in an old story .
narc Nothing particularly special or memorable - even the 'surprise ' at the end is n't especially surprising -- the film competently tells it tale . Narc is fast , brutal and a lot smarter than it at first appears to be . Despite the pyrotechnics , Narc is strictly by the book . With gritty , in-your-face camera work , fast-paced cutting and energized performances , Joe Carnahan 's Narc brings new life to the time-worn police thriller . Ray Liotta and Jason Patric do some of their best work in their underwritten roles , but do n't be fooled : Nobody deserves any prizes here . The movie fairly bristles -- with degraded-image '70s grit ... handheld hysteria , thickly profane dialogue , abject bloodletting , and post-Method performances . If Carnahan keeps wrenching this material back an inch or two from clich , it 's only an inch or two . Joe Carnahan 's film smacks viewers alongside the head like a desperate junkie hunting down his fix money . Intense cop movie for adults . Liotta is a hot prospect for this year 's supporting-actor Oscar . 	Jason Patric and Ray Liotta are electrifying in this gritty , if a little too familiar , cop drama .
frances ha 2013 You got ta love Greta Gerwig : Even as the radiant mumblecore star 's Hollywood stock continues to rise , the actress remains true to her dramatic roots . The film may be small , but it 's really good . Frances Ha is the work of an artist in love , and in Baumbach 's case , it 's not clear that love is his most constructive muse . 'I ca n't account for my own bruises , ' Frances says , as if she were a clumsy kid with an adult 's vocabulary . Does the remark refer to more than the abrasions on her skin ? `` Frances Ha : has plenty of recognizable reference points : `` Manhattan , '' the French New Wave , Lena Dunham . And yet it 's still something new . When is a film a throwaway sketch that 's so good it 's frameable ? When it 's Frances Ha . [ T ] he film is a delightfully spry vacation into the life of a woman who does n't really deserve the affectionate film around her . Like Ethan Hawke 's recent Before Midnight ( aimed at people in their 40s ) , Frances Ha will engage its literate-minded target audience fed up with disaster blockbusters . I found Frances Ha frequently irritating and even cringe-inducing in the moment , yet feel tenderer towards it in retrospect . It 's about a specific time in life , when the sudden stampede to self-definition can make people seem cruel , crazy or resentful . Few films top Woody Allen 's Manhattan for capturing New York City 's blend of rapture and apprehension . Noah Baumbach 's Frances Ha comes close . 	Audiences will need to tolerate a certain amount of narrative drift , but thanks to sensitive direction from Noah Baumbach and an endearing performance from Greta Gerwig , Frances Ha makes it easy to forgive .
oslo august 31st Devastating . And masterful . `` Oslo , August 31st '' is quietly , profoundly , one of the most observant and sympathetic films I 've seen . As the final shots mirror the first , you reflect on how life goes on , with and without us . A wonderful , melancholy character piece that 's funny and tender , and as fresh as a breath of Oslo sea air . Moment to moment , you sense the fragility of Anders 's fate as it hangs in the balance . Te movie seems more like a searing portrait of self-discovery and realization , with the understanding that not everything you learn about yourself will be pleasant . A coolly observed yet boundlessly compassionate day in the life of a recovering drug addict , `` Oslo , August 31st '' breaks your heart many times over . ... a gritty and authentic portrait of the unseen post-abuse perils that addiction creates . [ Displays ] an invigoratingly acute understanding of the psychology of insecurity , longing , defensiveness and inward-turning rage . Trier has adapted a 1930s French novel , which in 1963 Louis Malle filmed as 'Le Feu Follet ' , but this feels totally fresh and modern in its concerns . It 's also devastating . 	An upfront study of a drug addict confronting his demons , Oslo , August 31st makes this dark journey worthwhile with fantastic directing and equally fantastic acting .
leon the professional Luc Besson 's original cut feels more like a journey than just a joy-buzzer jolt of action , and the deeper , braver , darker story he set out to tell - a fractured and fractious fairy tale . When people rave about `` The Professional , '' they mean `` Lon . '' The Professional is all over the map , and its pretensions of being about anything more than its most unpleasant elements simply make it all the more unpleasant . Having one career highlight performance in a film is a treat . Having three is just spoiling us , and the film is so solidly sold by the actors that it mostly manages to sidestep the potential queasiness in the Lon/Mathilda relationship . You 'll enjoy the action , but you 'll remember the movie because of Reno and Portman . The Professional is strictly amateur-hour . It 's surprising to find an action movie with so much emotional baggage , but amazingly it works . The white-hot violence may look professional , but it will leave you cold . Despite Besson 's mastery of technique , Leon 's success is due in large part to its elegant performances . Stylish , mature hitman thriller is quite violent . It 's an American movie as seen by someone whose main frame of reference is American movies , not American life . Therefore , while it 's draped in a cloak of gritty realism , Besson 's movie is really a kind of bizarre cinemaphile fantasy . 	Pivoting on the unusual relationship between seasoned hitman and his 12-year-old apprentice -- a breakout turn by young Natalie Portman -- Luc Besson 's Lon is a stylish and oddly affecting thriller .
planet 51 An often amusing , harmless adventure with enough inoffensive humor and impressive CGI animation to make up for its lack of exhilarating moments and refreshing surprises . It 's all a creepy mishmash of sci-fi and fantasy classics that director Jorge Blanco tarts up with an unwholesome preoccupation with pee , anal plugs , and homosexual anxiety . The screenplay aims wide for every snappy , pop-culture joke that can possibly be cracked . But the viewer 's funnybone remains an elusive target . This simply does n't have the right stuff . ... a mildly entertaining , visually well-crafted animation that can wait for rental . An uninspired computer-animated feature that may satisfy undiscriminating pipsqueaks and nearly no one else , Planet 51 is a low-IQ E.T . in reverse ... A thin joke becomes attenuated to breaking point . `` Singin ' in the Rain '' references ? John Glenn ? Cold War duck-and-cover drills ? What time capsule yielded this script ? dull and lifeless , moving inertly from point to point without offering much that 's memorable or amusing Glar and his friends are more or less all-purpose protestors , showing up on sidewalks with placards announcing , `` We 're really upset ! '' over nothing specific . And that makes them about as amiable and as bland as everyone else on Planet 51 . 	Planet 51 squanders an interesting premise with an overly familiar storyline , stock characters , and humor that alternates between curious and potentially offensive .
1002213-better off dead It 's a sure bet you 're gon na have fun . perhaps the greatest movie of all time Classic '80s Cusack vehicle . John Cusack launched his career as a lovable loser at love with this teen comedy about a guy who gets dumped when his girlfriend decides to trade up . The film does n't seem to have much of a focus . But it does n't seem to want one , either . I love this movie , with its bizarre tangents and dream sequences . Unfortunately , only about half of the many jokes and gags in the film are actually funny . John Cusack can even turn a no-brainer into worthwhile entertainment strives to be offbeat and sometimes works itself into a sweat doing so . The humor often hits the bullseye , however ... Hilarious and brilliantly deadpan . 	Better Off Dead is an anarchic mix of black humor and surreal comedy , anchored by John Cusack 's winsome , charming performance .
fast times at ridgemont high It 's among the coolest high school films I 've ever seen , and it 's one of the most representative movies of the 80s . This R-rated comedy captured the natural humor of high school life , while also addressing serious topics . The movie is sublimely funny . And interesting . Fast Times has not endured the passage of time . How could they do this to Jennifer Jason Leigh ? How could they put such a fresh and cheerful person into such a scuz-pit of a movie ? ... largely prosaic , crude , stereotyped , and pointless . May be the greatest teen movie ever made . The comedy captured the brutal realism of post-sexual-revolution high school life and has been imitated often , rarely equaled , and surpassed only once . Director Amy Heckerling almost encourages the film 's shapelessness , letting the individual moments speak for themselves , rather than molding a cohesive whole . The nice thing is that Crowe and director Amy Heckerling have provided something pleasant to observe in all of these characters though they really are sadly lacking in anything gripping . 	While Fast Times at Ridgemont High features Sean Penn 's legendary performance , the film endures because it accurately captured the small details of school , work , and teenage life .
the dance of reality A lot of the film does n't quite click , either as dream imagery or something more conventional . But there 's a spirit and a yearning in it that 's undeniable and bracing . By turns playful , tragic and surprisingly light on its feet , this welcome comeback for Alejandro Jodorowsky should keep its maker fully booked on the fest circuit . A thrillingly surrealist exercise , one that plays out like a dream -- sometimes like a nightmare -- as it relates Jodorowsky 's semi-autobiographical , coming-of-age tale . It had a few El Topo moments I could dig , but mostly tested my patience in dealing with Jodorowsky 's at times tiresome self-indulgent art . A minor success from a major figure . Part of the dance in `` The Dance of Reality '' is between one 's own destiny and uncontrollable forces . The Dance of Reality , which deserves a place alongside Amarcord as a fantastical take on coming of age , is the work of a wise and experienced old soul with the passion and curiosity of a young man . It makes sense , in the way that a nightmare makes sense . Nostalgia and narcissism from a cinematic Grand Master . El Topo is back . A surprisingly poignant , AMARCORD-like memoir . 	This long-overdue return from Alejandro Jodorowsky finds him just as overflowing with imagination -- and heart -- as fans have come to expect .
pathfinder So bad , I was hoping everyone would die in the end , so I would n't have to sit through a sequel . Director Marcus Nispel continues in Pathfinder the gory/lame tradition he began with his Texas Chainsaw Massacre remake . Once the actual fighting begins , the film turns dull and lifeless . From beginning to end , the film plods when it should pulse . This latest bit of historical balder-dash stands in direct defiance of proven action-movie formulas , trusting its brutal concept and striking visuals to overcome a lack of star power . All grunting , all goring , the witless action flick Pathfinder has little to recommend it . When placed inside a film featuring Vikings that look more like members of GWAR and Karl Urban trying to act butch enough to cover the fact that he 's running around in a dishrag and Uggs , any opportunity to stop the film to chat is a bad idea . at times hallucinatory but ultimately , utterly forgettable . No more than a minute into this , and it becomes obvious that the next 98 are going to be trouble . Must the 13-year-old boy Hollywood seems most eager to please also be a sadist ? First came Apocalypto , then 300 , now Pathfinder . I did n't think it was possible to make a movie involving Vikings worse than 1978 's The Norsemen starring Lee Majors , but director Marcus Nispel and company have accomplished just that with this formulaic piece of poorly made PC trash . 	A few rousing action sequences ca n't make up for Pathfinder 's non-existent plot and silly dialogue .
never back down Never Back Down is a compulsory guilty pleasure . Think : Save the Last Dance meets Fight Club meets 8 Mile meets YouTube . Come back Mr Miyagi , all is forgiven . The acting is hammy , Djimon Hounsou shows up to give the flick a corny air of Karate Kid and there 's nothing particularly original about the whole premise but somehow it works . It must be those abs . Or the kicks to them . ... the plot is practically a remake of The Karate Kid . That may be sufficiently long ago that the target audience of teens wo n't notice , but it 's pretty blatant . With its thin characters and derivative plot , the finished product seems more like a marketing concept than an actual film . ... spouts a hollow message of nonviolence while celebrating the brutal satisfaction of beating the crap out of someone . Never see movies that give stupid macho advice in their titles . If Mystery Science Theater 3000 ever makes a comeback , I 've got its first movie . A soulless blend of bad action , bad acting and worse writing , Never Back Down is tolerable only if merciless wisecrackers are offering commentary . Tyler does not live on planet Earth , but planet Hollywood formula , where the storm clouds of Fight Club hang over the once charming but now seedy landscape of The Karate Kid . The Karate Kid meets Fight Club but it 's no way near as good as it sounds . 	Though not without its pleasures , Never Back Down faithfully adheres to every imaginable fight movie clich .
pinocchio 1940 It 's still amazing to watch the sheer delight in movement and the sheer joy in decorating the frame with colors and shapes . Nope , no perverted subtext here . Even in our cynical age , it still manages to impress . Perhaps the high water mark for Walt Disney Pictures . Sixty-five years still have n't produced its equal . One of Disney 's greatest triumphs . A marvel and a joy to behold , it 's the real thing . It 's the stuff that dreams -- and nightmares -- are made of . Probably shows Disney 's virtues and vices more clearly than any other cartoon . Although it may lack the heart-tugging appeal of Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs , the consensus among animation fans is that 1940 's Pinocchio remains the most perfect animated feature Walt Disney produced . Possibly the best Disney animated feature The moral lessons include a literalization of metaphors about lying and other forms of misbehaving , and the grasp of a little boy 's emotions and behavior often borders on the uncanny . 	Ambitious , adventurous , and sometimes frightening , Pinocchio arguably represents the pinnacle of Disney 's collected works -- it 's beautifully crafted and emotionally resonant .
drumline Drumline has got the beat . This terrific film will have your feet tapping in movie-going joy . More than compensating for the formula script are Drumline 's tuneful glory and driving rhythms , along with a pulsating vitality that never flags . A most unusual musical ... Learning something from his subject , Stone gives the picture a snappy rhythm . [ Blu-ray ] A thoroughly formulaic movie ... the only truly new element here is the musicmaking background , and it 's a fairly easy transplant . ... enthusiastically invokes the percussion rhythm , the brass soul and the sense of fierce competition that helps make great marching bands half the fun of college football games . Drumline ably captures the complicated relationships in a marching band . [ B ] ear in mind that this is a movie whose climax features the kind of college football halftime antics you might normally take a bathroom break to avoid watching . Shakes , rattles and rolls the house . Director Charles Stone III , once again takes on overly familiar material and gives it an enthusiastic spin . Pretty formulaic stuff ... but the specific setting ... sets it apart . 	Essentially a sports movie with drums , the energetic Drumline somehow manages to make the familiar seem fresh .
hard candy Hard Candy takes itself way too seriously . It 's a genre movie that serves empty calories weighted with self-importance . There is no question that Hard Candy is an intense and unnerving little film . But when all is said and done it 's a rather empty exercise in hot button pushing . It 's just cheap exploitation , teasing around a serious issue and then , disappointingly , running from it . The film 's greatest flaw is its conception of its 14-year-old heroine ( ? ) as an avenging angel of death , complete with otherworldly confidence and poise , devoid of the kind vulnerability that would mark a girl of this age . Thoroughly confounding the 'normal ' relationship between abuser and victim , first-time director Slade presents a complex morality tale under the guise of an exploitation thriller . the entire film hinges on how Page and Wilson execute their roles . With apologies to Carly Simon , I ca n't imagine anybody doing it better . You might feel like squirming , but you will not want to look away . Harrowing psychological drama that pushes every conceivable button while pushing viewers over the edge ... Candy is nasty through and through , and it leaves an acidic aftertaste . A daring two-character drama that goes sour in its last half-hour ... In this Misery with a teen twist , Ellen Page delivers a mint performance far beyond her years . ... [ I ] t 's Page who really carries the picture , delivering screenwriter Brian Nelson 's clever dialogue so convincingly , we actually become scared for the child predator that she 's tormenting . 	Disturbing , controversial , but entirely engrossing , Hard Candy is well written with strong lead performances , especially that of newcomer Ellen Page . A movie that stays with the viewer long after leaving the theater .
1087648-payback A genre that 's been beaten to a pulp ! It feels more like a lousy Christopher Lambert thriller : all bad jokes , lampoonish villains and gory violence . A sharp and funny script , understated acting , stylish . Morally bankrupt , but it 's rich entertainment ! It is well written , contains a flock of colorful characters , and gives star Mel Gibson a number of great one-liners . Bloody-handed but hip ! Too meanspirited and brutal for its own good . Strictly a Mel Gibson vehicle , and one that does n't really know what to do with the star 's easygoing , audience-pleasing charm . Payback is just Die Hard : Without a Soul . It 's a good , strong shot for fans who like their crime stories rough and no-nonsense . 	Sadistic violence and rote humor saddle a predictable action premise .
the gatekeepers 2012 For its candor and impact , deserves to be seen and discussed . If for no other reason , it deserves to be seen for arranging decades of events in the Middle East into a chronology that , to an outsider , makes dreadful sense . [ Moreh ] asks just the right questions , never prodding these understandably private men too far but getting what he needs . From the moment you hear one of these former insiders admitting his misgivings over an act of violence he perpetrated , you ca n't help but be drawn in . The film makes explicit and implicit endorsements . The strategy of vengeance and overkill is ineffective and leads Israel to horrific behavior described only through metaphor . While memorable in sometimes unexpected ways ( 1980 head Avraham Shalom 's long unwashed nails ) , there is always the nagging feeling that any revelations are being pushed or sold a little too hard . Israelis , generally speaking , tend to be tough , but the men who 've commanded Shin Bet , Israel 's secret service , are in a whole other category . A refreshingly candid and controversial documentary where former heads of Israel 's security agency explain their take on the war against terrorism and express their criticism of the nation as a police state . The Gatekeepers does n't play like agitprop . The storytelling is strong , the images stark . [ A ] searching , engrossing , and stylish inquiry ... 	Strikingly stark , brutally honest , and rivetingly assembled , The Gatekeepers offers essential perspective on a seemingly intractable war from some of the men who fought it .
1010939-jason and the argonauts Great Harryhausen effects , indifferent acting and script The sheer outlandish nature of the production sets it apart from many of the mythology-inspired films of its era . Made while Hollywood was plundering Roman history at vast expense , this British picture went further back in time and created a niche of its own . For true Ray Harryhausen fans , Jason and the Argonauts will remain one of his greatest feats . And if you bring yourself back to the era , you 'll find a world of wonder yourself . Ray Harryhausen 's finest hour is a fun and classic romp through the classics . It mostly comes alive through the imaginative special effects by Ray Harryhausen , the maven of stop-motion animation . Saturday matinee fun in the finest tradition . Special-effects buffs generally cite this 1963 effort by Ray Harryhausen as the master 's masterpiece , and his work does a great deal to enliven the tired plot and vacuous stars . This absurd , unwieldy adventure -- if that 's the word -- is no worse , but certainly no better , than most of its kind . In a cinema landscape populated with all kinds of digitally created creatures and setpieces , it 's nice to take a look back and witness the birth of these ideas . 	Don Chaffey 's Jason and the Argonauts is an outlandish , transportive piece of nostalgia whose real star is the masterful stop-motion animation work of Ray Harryhausen .
five obstructions The success of the film depends almost distressingly on the audience 's cheeky sense of bad faith toward Lars Von Trier . To see how Leth discovers ways to use the devilish obstructions to his advantage is nothing short of thrilling . A movie that 's so eager and playful and inspired that it made me a von Trier believer again . An eccentric and intrepid testament to the pure joy of cinema ... a duel of intellect and imagination . [ ... ] The reason The Five Obstructions lingers as an essential part of von Trier 's filmography [ ... ] is because it reveals so much about why von Trier has worked the way he has in the past [ ... ] If this sounds like Jackass for intellectuals , that 's because it is , but without the laughs . His latest film , The Five Obstructions , may be the one that gets the closest to his inner workings , and the one that finally tests him back . [ Leth 's ] strength against adversity elevates the movie above the one-sided whipping of a genial man to a more interesting duel of filmmakers . He parries when von Trier thrusts . If you have a desire to one day challenge the camera yourself , I 'd strongly advise studying this film intensely . Good filmmakers come and go , but the great ones hide in Haiti . Director Lars von Trier goes mental on his mentor and makes him remake a film over and over and over ... 	Both an intriguing intellectual exercise and an amusing look at the contrasts between the two filmmakers .
2012 The Ron Jeremy of disaster porn . Eye-popping special effects ensure that this movie will be a smash hit , and while it 's entertaining for most of its excessive running time , the cheesy script fails to live up to the grandeur of the physical production . As you might expect with director Roland Emmerich , the movie is n't a patch on the trailer . It 's great to see Fred Astaire , er , Danny Glover back in the saddle as the President of the United States . It 's the first time America elected a President whose campaign slogan was 'I 'm too old for this s**t . ' If you want to see the most incredible end-of-the-world footage rendered since Nic Cage 's Knowing , buy a ticket . Otherwise , it 'll look just fine on your television next year . Plausible plot points , great special effects and characters we care about . That 's really about all you need to enjoy this Apocalypse Wow ! There 's so much ambitious spectacle , but it 's surrounded by so many lazy contrivances that one would want to gasp in astonishment if one were n't chuckling and groaning in aggravation so often . The money shots are there in spades for 2012 . It 's utterly unbelievable but a blast to watch . And on a big screen , it 's pretty impressive . With a planet sized disaster film , there are nation sized holes to pick at if you choose , but there 's a world of fun to be had if you sit back and let the destruction wash over you in this fantastical , mind blowing visual feast . The world will end not with a whimper , but a bang - and another bang , and another bang , and another ... 	Roland Emmerich 's 2012 provides plenty of visual thrills , but lacks a strong enough script to support its massive scope and inflated length .
1209933-puss in boots What kids will get from it is plenty of fairly outrageous but not often witty fun with fairytale elements blended into a kind of latterday spaghetti western . For the rest of us , there is plenty of nice visual detail . A milquetoast homunculi assembled by the most hackneyed form of studio groupthink imaginable . Awash in action and colour ( and short , parents , short ) , Puss in Boots is a terrific example of how to put a fresh spin on a character spun off from a threadbare franchise . Clever and witty enough for adults and colorful and zany enough for children . Moreover , it 's adventurous enough for anyone to like , no matter what their age . Even for a Shrek spin-off , Puss In Boots is mighty thin gruel , based more in outsized emotion than actual narrative . An almost purr-fect little film that even a dog owner can enjoy . Puss in Boots prances along on three basic truths . One , cats are funny . Two , vain Spanish cats in high-heeled musketeer boots are even funnier . Lastly , booted , vain Spanish cats voiced by a breathy Antonio Banderas are flat-out hilarious . The resulting spinoff , simply titled Puss in Boots , is breezily entertaining -- even to a dog person . Our expectations have not been satisfied ; the character of Puss in Boots has been diminished , the story is trite and meaningless and the hero 's journey we expected is a lame duck `` Puss in Boots '' is n't particularly deep , nor does it take itself seriously -- it just wants to seek glory , win affection and cash in . Done , done and done . 	It is n't deep or groundbreaking , but what it lacks in profundity , Puss in Boots more than makes up for with an abundance of wit , visual sparkle , and effervescent charm .
black dynamite Black Dynamite will stir some pleasant memories . Even if you 've never seen a black exploitation film you will be thoroughly entertained by 'DY-NO-MITE ! DY-NO-MITE ! ' As the titular ex-CIA man , White reveals comic talents to match his martial artistry , delivering one-liners and roundhouse kicks with the same killer precision . a muscular , mustachioed , lethally suave motharf*cka , armed with nunchuks , kung-fu kicks , and a roaring .44 Magnum , has come to rescue jive turkey movie auds from spoof-film purgatory Do n't blame The Man , blame the overdose of irony . A terrific satire of seventies blaxploitation classics Here , the acting , framing , focus , blocking , editing , sound and film processing all nail down the period so perfectly ... It looks , sounds and feels as if it were shot in 1972 . Beneath the good-natured retro silliness of Black Dynamite is something smart and new . Hilarious , and at just 85 minutes long , never outstays its welcome . As the theme song declares , this cat is dy-no-mite ! 	A loving and meticulous send-up of 1970s blaxsploitation movies , Black Dynamite is funny enough for the frat house and clever enough for film buffs .
resident evil extinction Fun , forgettable stuff -- but also a ( slightly ) better film than the reviews would have you believe . The Alice you care about most , the one who kills zombies with splits and panache ( and machetes ) is actually not on Isaacs ' monitor and is not dead yet . Rips from as many movies as possible , and fails to even do that right . Those zombies are back on the march in the third instalment of the horror-action series that plays like a rip-off of George A Romero 's Day Of The Dead , only with a much lower IQ . najve % u0107i adut filma je , kao i uvijek , Milla Jovovich One or two good action sequences keep boredom at bay for a while , but so little of it is fresh that extinction ca n't come too soon . The latest installment in writer/producer Paul W.S . Anderson 's Resident Evil series may have opened atop the box office , but hardcore gamers know where the real action is . It 's high time for `` Resident Evil : Enough is Enough '' . There does n't seem to be much other point to Extinction , with its disposable story and its ever-more-conspicuous lack of any original ideas . Groovy bit of multiplex pandemonium 	Resident Evil : Extinction is more of the same ; its few impressive action sequences unable to compensate for the pedestrian plot .
rundown A brisk , good- hearted but predictable and uninspired -- not to mention bone-crunchingly violent -- action comedy . The Rundown offers everything a good movie of this sort should : plenty of suspenseful action , a few good laughs , and a share of obligatory 'reluctant buddy ' bonding . The Rundown is big fun at the movies . The fights almost make up for the excessively juvenile humor and a portrayal of Brazil that 's as ridiculous as the depictions of Africa in old Tarzan movies . The film vacillates between balmy stabs at humor and milking its sodden social conscience . Meanwhile the script devolves into people yelling 'Shut up ! ' at each other . With a summer as full of action movies as this one , you would n't think there 'd be room for one more , yet `` The Rundown '' manages to keep an air of freshness without doing anything terribly new . A fun ride . I think you can smell what the Rock is cooking : a dish that 'll fatten your head but pleasantly plump your gut . [ Blu-ray ] No need to run down The Rundown . The latest from The Rock is solid . The plot is a particularly hapless Indiana Jones rip-off , which makes the mind-numbingly frantic and dull action sequences a fatal liability . 	The Rundown does n't break any new ground , but it 's a smart , funny buddy action picture with terrific comic chemistry between Dwayne `` The Rock '' Johnson and Seann William Scott .
liberty heights Offers a deeper immersion in that old '50s feeling than any other Hollywood film in recent memory . Only the dourest dyspeptics will fail to enjoy it . A thoroughly grounded statement about the human condition . Writer-director Barry Levinson brings it all back home to Baltimore and delivers his funniest and most heartfelt film since Diner . Both epic and intimate , taking on a large cast of characters while focusing quietly on the details of their lives . Liberty Heights is worth a look , with its rich characters and dialogue , and its gorgeous cinematography by Chris Doyle . Coming to terms with `` the other '' ( whether stranger , enemy , or alien ) is as critical to the development of soul now as it was in the 1950s . A pleasant and worthy addition to a strong series of films . A grand slam ! Delivers the emotional goods . 	A moving film with moments of humor , Liberty Heights succeeds in capturing the feel of the '50s with great performances and sensitive direction .
how to lose a guy in 10 days You got ta love love , especially when it 's devious , deceitful , selfish , brutal and manipulative . When a chick flick goes wrong -- and this one hits a dead end in hell -- it 's a wipeout . A nice enough diversion when the theaters are filled with weightier Oscar contenders . Button-cute . ... breezy and manipulative ... This piece of dating dreck is so sticky sweet and syrupy that one would think they screened Petrie 's film at the International House of Pancakes ! All in all , it 's a mostly harmless movie and if you 're female and have a mean streak , you should love it . Guys should see it as a warning . a shallow , convoluted love story with some cheap laughs wrapped around an infomercial The movie is clever , up to a point , and then becomes strained in the manner of a lot of the romantic comedies of the '40s . The movie would have been so much better if it had jumped into its mean-spiritedness with gusto and passion , instead of just splashing around in it halfheartedly . ... This film will charm your socks off 	Matthew McConaughey and Kate Hudson are charming together , but they ca n't overcome How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days ' silly premise and predictable script .
the overnight 2015 Smart , playful , and hilarious , `` The Overnight '' is a delightful romp between the sheets . The movie is a weird and darkly comedic exploration of an all-night parental playdate in which marital boredom , sexual dissatisfaction and fidelity are on the agenda . Here 's an amiably goofy , if dramatically thin comedy of swinging sexual manners . [ A ] n emotional obstacle course that starts out sweetly optimistic , turns to uncomfortable farce , and ultimately ends up somewhere poignant and ripped with compassion ... Brice ... needs only to sit back and let his actors excel in their comfort zones . Schilling , as she 's proven on Orange Is the New Black , sport a wicked sense of deadpan and she 's genuinely touching opposite Scott . Painfully funny and brilliantly performed . The amount of laughs Patrick Brice is able to generate from such a simple idea and on such a small budget makes one think that he 's due for a breakout . Excruciatingly hilarious and hilariously excruciating . The merkin scene will live with you forever . Even as sex comedies go , this one is slight , but it 's funny . 	Witty and unpredictable , The Overnight benefits from writer-director Patrick Brice 's sure-handed touch and strong performances from a talented cast .
time to leave One gets the feeling while watching Time to Leave that the feisty director is , for the first time , bored by the story he 's telling . A short and succinct film but it lingers long in the memory . Franois Ozon 's latest follows in the footsteps of familiar made-for-TV-movie terrain but does so wearing Prada shoes . It does absolutely nothing that previous movies dealing with this subject have n't done . Una exploracin muy personal , muy ntima y para nada condescendiente sobre la proximidad de la muerte a edad temprana . Muy buen elenco . It 's a quiet and poignant look at a life as it slips away , seen through the eyes of a character who 's not always likable but remains entirely real . Ozon 's drama offers no rousing speeches about living to the fullest , or heartfelt soliloquies on the nature of existence , only a bitterly honest admission that death happens to everyone and there is no use trying to stop it . Romain is ruthlessly true to himself , and the film 's final scene , which begins on a crowded beach and ends as everyone who can goes home , is stunningly haunting . Time to Leave just might be Ozon 's best work yet . He tackles a sensitive , off-putting subject with a dignity that will put viewers at ease . A cinematic tone poem , wafting on wistful tableaus and sad faces ... .mostly elaborates on how death must ultimately be a personal experience . 	A reflective look at our own mortality through the experience of a middle-aged French man , Time To Leave manages to pull at our heart strings without resorting to cliches , and leaves a lasting impression .
your mommy kills animals ... a flawed yet remarkably even-handed look at an extraordinarily contentious issue . Terrific documentary on the animal rights movement that allows all sides in the debate to make their points . This film shines a clear light on the dark controversy surrounding our treatment of animals . A miraculously evenhanded treatment of a snarlingly divisive debate . The most controversial , provocative , inflammatory and thought-provoking film of the year ! It 's the best kind of documentary , in that if you 're a thinking person it is nearly impossible to watch the movie without having your point of view challenged and questioned . What feels like a lack of propaganda makes the film all the more cogent , intelligent , and powerful . Perhaps the greatest service Johnson does is to turn the event that spurred him to make the film -- the FBI labeling animal rights activists the top domestic terrorist threat -- into a crucial dialogue . David Martosko , of the Center for Consumer Freedom , carries the film 's obscured theme that `` morality '' is a religious-based ploy used by all sides of the animal abuse debate that lead the FBI to rank animal-rights activists as the No.1 terrorist threat in Those on both sides of the animal rights issue will find much to fume over in ... Curt Johnson 's in-depth , eye-opening examination of the movement . 	A thoroughly fascinating , well-presented examination of the animal rights debate that is both provocative and thought-provoking .
the gameplan ... '' stupid '' is a mean word . So I 'm not going to use it to describe this smug , cynical , hackneyed pretext for product placement ... Neither perceptive nor authentic , it lacks genuine humour and shows what an overwritten and under-funny script , put in the hands of immature actors , can produce . A Disney comedy that tries to overcompensate with cute what it lacks in clever . Watchable comedy that manages to overcome its formulaic plot and cliche-laden script , largely thanks to Johnson being such a likeable comic actor . The Game Plan makes The Pacifier look like No Country for Old Men . A remixed version of Elvis 's `` Rubberneckin ' '' is an apt credit sequence number , since the movie is itself a similarly trivial , jazzed-up version of a standard . The movie is so likable that it glides over its many plot holes . The film ( TM ) s direction , by Andy Fickman , is raucous but never crass , and the affable Mr. Johnson is committed to every moment . I can smell what The Rock is cooking , and Gordon Ramsay is shutting down that kitchen ! [ Johnson 's ] quick smile and willingness to play along make him by far the most likable of modern movie muscleheads . He 's thus one of the reasons to see The Game Plan . There 's a fine line -- just two letters , in fact -- between precocious and precious . Unfortunately The Game Plan not only crosses it but runs 80 yards down the field , and one ca n't help but throw a flag on the play . 	Despite The Rock 's abundant charisma , The Game Plan is just another run-of-the-mill Disney comedy .
gypsy caravan when the road bends It 's hardly surprising that Gypsy Caravan , a lively and lovely music documentary , is rife with whirling rhythms , wild , soaring melodic lines , the ululations of singers steeped in centuries of Romany tradition . It 's easy to see why [ director ] Dellal had trouble turning the camera off , especially when confronted with a startling and sad plot twist . Viewers are urged to grab an aisle seat , the better to dance when the music moves them -- as it surely will . Caravan sounds great and if nothing else should help diminish the stereotype , blasted by the film 's subjects , of Gypsies as little more than pickpockets whom travelers need to be wary of . [ Dellal 's ] attempts to 'straighten ' the narrative through exposition disguised as the walkie-talkie messages of an unseen stage manager , however , are distractingly ham-handed . It 's a slow , sometimes grating process for an hour or so , but once everyone wises up to their shared heritage , a euphoric celebration of what it means to be a gypsy takes flight . For those who like a melange of music with an international flare , GYPSY CARAVAN is a pleasure . An irresistibly vibrant concert-tour documentary by Jasmine Dellal . Everyone is having so much fun , one would really like to be a part of it . But the performance sequences are too jaggedly truncated to pull us in entirely . For its glimpses of various lifestyles and personalities -- an ancient but spry fiddler , a young male who performs in drag -- it is n't bad . The energy is electric , the camerawork crisp and colourful , the editing note-perfect . . . . for the Roma , music sounds the notes of a harsh , maligned cultural history , making them all the more unforgettable while demanding remembrance , even awe . 	A dynamic doc following five Romani bands is a pleasure for the senses thanks to vibrant colors and eclectic music .
1017293-rebecca An actress who well knows she 's been perfectly cast in a role she perfectly understands should not be underestimated , even if , as with Fontaine , she is never so good again . While the film offers no overt violence or thrills , it is a model of sustained mystery and eerie suspense . A gorgeous treat from one of cinema 's masters . Not to be missed . Both a tender gothic romance and a haunting ghost story . A gothic moody piece , there 's an overwhelming sense that anything can happen in this film , and anything does . The plot is twisting , unpredictable and even unclear . Through its first two-thirds it is as perfect a myth of adolescence as any of the Disney films , documenting the childlike , nameless heroine 's initiation into the adult mysteries of sex , death , and identity . Hitchcock shows superb technical control and attends to his trademark motifs , from monstrous mother figures to the fetishisation of clothing . Hitchcock 's only Best Picture winner is a moody thriller about a past murder Excellent , but may be too long and moody for kids . An altogether brilliant film , haunting , suspenseful , handsome and handsomely played . 	Hitchcock 's first American film ( and his only Best Picture winner ) , Rebecca is a masterpiece of haunting atmosphere , Gothic thrills , and gripping suspense .
manakamana We 're basically gawking at a commute . Manakamana is both calming and imagination-sparking , forcing viewers to look at human faces for 10-minute stretches , whether those faces are talking excitedly or quietly looking around . Filmmakers Stephanie Spray and Pacho Velez insist that altered spectatorship , particularly patience and duration , is the foundation of cinematic edification . A purifying moviegoing experience ... Manakamana does n't answer any questions , yet makes its point : Nepal , like the rest of our planet , is a picturesque but far from peaceable kingdom . I 've never seen anything like it . A stunning blend of life 's grand and monotonous movements . There is little dialogue and no explication , only a succession of dreamy rides , one of which is given over to goats . `` Manakamana '' says as much about the erosion of patience as it does about the value of holding onto it . Manakamana is a travel film that 's not about the ride , but the riders . Ourselves included , of course . 	Its tranquil pace will prove jarring for the blockbuster-inclined , but Manakamana rewards patient viewers with a singularly haunting experience .
young frankenstein Some of the gags do n't work , but fewer than in any previous Brooks film that I 've seen , and when the jokes are meant to be bad , they are riotously poor . What more can one ask of Mel Brooks ? ... an unswervingly funny yet loving and beautifully crafted homage , something more artful and lasting than the usual pull-my-finger farce or focus-grouped Scary Movie lowballer . A comic twist on the traditional Frankenstein story . ... Brooks reveal ( s ) himself a true obsd and an honorable heir to the eerily delicate comic-horror tradition of James Whale . Young Frankenstein emerges as a reverently satirical salute to the 1930s horror film genre . Brooks 's most accomplished work , combining his well-known brand of comedy with stylish direction and a uniformly excellent cast . Brooks ' corniness yields plenty of belly laughs . Hey , our man Brooks never claimed to have good taste . Bless him . A deathless comedy classic [ Blu-ray ] Pretty classic spoof to classic horror . 	Made with obvious affection for the original , Young Frankenstein is a riotously silly spoof featuring a fantastic performance by Gene Wilder .
15 minutes A mean , ugly exploitation picture with sophomoric delusions of grandeur . ... senseless , heavy-handed and does n't know when enough is enough . It 's hard to remember another film so utterly clueless about itself . A very original and timely movie which connects on various levels . Herzfeld settles for the most mundane execution of his idea . It 's a film that has about 15 minutes of fervor to it before it gets grounded into a mixture of sleaze , violence , and heartless melodrama . Powerful , simply powerful . `` 15 Minutes '' is a cops-and-killers action movie naively intent on telling you things you already know about the societal pitfalls of tabloid media . Roden and Taktarov are such likeable villains that it 's a pleasure to watch them . Migraine-inducing and graphically violent -- but always entertaining . 	As critical as it is about sensationalism in the media , 15 Minutes itself indulges in lurid violence , and its satire is too heavy-handed to be effective .
ginger snaps It 's all downhill from there , but there is something efficiently creepy about the enclosed world of two alienated young women in suburbia . Not squeamish ? Like monsters ? Go see . Ginger Snaps finally represents nothing more than an overwhelming example of missed opportunity . This is n't just a good horror movie , it 's a good movie . Period . Reminded me of the early work of David Cronenberg The linkage between puberty and lycanthropy ... is imagined with enough savage wit to count as an act of genre resuscitation . ... winds up wallowing in its own detached ironic humour . Ginger Snaps starts out so well that its terrible last half hour feels insulting . It 's promising . This grisly werewolf film is actually a black comedy about a teen girl encountering menstruation . Yes , really . 	The strong female cast and biting satire of teenage life makes Ginger Snaps far more memorable than your average werewolf movie -- or teen flick .
wedding planner Too much of this belabored romance is devoted to the surprisingly unfunny complications that ensue when Mary discovers the true identity of her new crush . So insipid , so willfully bland , that it will probably need no nips , tucks , trims or bleeps to be ready for flight play . It 's a modestly successful romantic comedy , much like those old-fashioned fluff films of yesterday . There are times when the movie 's contrivance is agonizing . Like one of those elaborately-decorated cakes at wedding receptions that proves tasteless and indigestible when one bites into it . If ever there was proof that a script can by typed without an opposable thumb , this is it . The work of la Lopez , who is as gifted as she is gorgeous , and by McConaughey , a dreamboat when he 's at ease , is more than compensatory . Strictly predictable . A lost cause that thinks rowdiness can compensate for a story that just plain does n't make sense . Its manner is as light as wedding cake frosting and its lead performances are as poised as the bride and groom at the top of the cake . 	Instead of being light and charming , this romantic comedy is heavy-handed and contrived in its execution . Also , it 's too unoriginal .
blood diamond It 's an exciting , moving , worthy film -- just not quite as important as Zwick would like it to be . As the adage goes , though , the road to hell is paved withgood intentions and BLOOD DIAMOND is nothing if not well intentioned . Unfortunately , it squanders a lot of good will and its message about Sierra Leone , the atrocities committed ... , and the result Rather than merely toil in action theatrics , Zwick has consistently explored the interstices of war and honor , and the way in which sense of duty is often warped . The important African message is diluted into a rather ugly and potentially racist film . Blood Diamond presents itself as an action thriller but the genre trappings ca n't hide the fact that Zwick wants to teach audiences another history lesson and lecture them on political correctness . Much more so than those earlier films , Blood Diamond freely combines political grandstanding with action-adventure heroics . It 's clear that Blood Diamond takes quite a while to wholeheartedly get going ... Everyone uses everyone in Blood Diamond , a blistering political thriller that scratches furiously in Africa 's red soil to reveal what is priceless . The soil is red from blood % u2026 As responsible as 'Blood Diamond ' tries to be , this well-made picture is ultimately an example of misery chic . At its best , Blood Diamond makes the sorrow of Sierra Leone 's exploitation ( by just about everyone ) palpable . 	Blood Diamond overcomes poor storytelling with its biting commentary and fine performances .
wild tales This is a rambling , slightly shambolic , but beautifully messed up film . A clever collection of short films that coalesce around a central theme , wielding humor and horror in equal measure . it 's clear that Szifrn is working from a deep well of imagination about how much people are willing to spite themselves in order to take down perceived enemies . While the stories themselves are about the joys of losing control , their creator knows exactly what can be achieved with crafty pacing , masterly editing and a precisely controlled balance between the matter-of-fact and the shamelessly hysterical . ... it only cements Szifron 's clear talent ... Of the six tales on offer , four are excellent and one decent - a high strike rate for a compilation . Each of the six vignettes that make up this unusually energetic anthology pertains to the methods of calculated mass dehumanization that are ( barely ) hidden beneath the practices of social institutions . Wild Tales gets off to an impressively electrifying start ... Very few films have been as appropriately titled as writer/director Damian Szifron 's omnibus black comedy Wild Tales . An exciting and energizing achievement in film-making , a truly funny work that 's equally deep and philosophical , all while not taking itself too seriously . 	Wickedly hilarious and delightfully deranged , Wild Tales is a subversive satire that doubles as a uniformly entertaining anthology film .
total recall A worthy entry in the dystopian cycle launched by Blade Runner , this seems less derivative than most of its predecessors yet equally accomplished in its straight-ahead storytelling , with plenty of provocative satiric undertones and scenic details . Oh for the days when Verhoeven was still in Holland . Mind-bending psychodrama . When the leader of the rebels turns out to be Baby Herman from Who Framed Roger Rabbit , it 's clear that the satirical bull's-eyes Verhoeven nailed in RoboCop have here been turned into a more benign state of rib-nudging . Ugly , stupid , loud , offensive , and pointlessly violent . While it may seem dated today , the film showcases Sharon Stone , evil wife to Schwarzenegger . You may want to take notice of how precious air is after seeing it . Verhoeven keeps the whole thing chugging along neatly with a huge dollop of ultra-violence and gore . Schwarzenegger is at his best ever . Perhaps it goes without saying that Total Recall is no The Terminator , but let the records show . Ridiculous , but also plenty of fun Melding the ever-more-workable Schwarzenegger mystique with a better-than-average science-fiction premise , the director Paul Verhoeven has come up with a vigorous , superviolent interplanetary thriller that packs in wallops with metronomic regularity . 	Under Paul Verhoeven 's frenetic direction , Total Recall is a fast-paced rush of violence , gore , and humor that never slacks .
right stuff History , melodrama , comedy and satire are skilfully combined in this consistently exciting adventure . Visually and dramatically it rarely sags , there 's a vivid array of characters and though it 's a film with issues , these never eclipse the human drama . Bored me to death , but it was the first time I was hit on , so it was worth it . These men remain virtually flawless heroes , almost too good , decent and brave to be true , and it 's a measure of how successful the movie is that one is inclined to believe it . Moviegoers seeking a grand yet edifying entertainment , right-stuffed with what Kaufman calls `` seriousness of subject matter and a wild humor that comes out of left field , '' now know where to look ... even though the total is less than the sum of its parts , it 's pretty impressive nevertheless Brings a wealth of humor to a faithful retelling of the astronauts ' fascinating stories , the actors fit smoothly into their roles and even physically resemble their characters , and the direction is well-paced and visually exciting . The Right Stuff is a humdinger . Full of beauty , intelligence and excitement , this big-scale look at the development of the US space program and its pioneering aviators provides a fresh , entertaining look back at the recent past . Consistently compelling , capturing all the ambiguity and tension of the book . Kaufman 's enormously entertaining history of America 's Mercury astronauts fizzled on release , maybe because it was too smart and cool for its own good . One of the fastest-paced epics ever made 	The Right Stuff packs a lot of movie into its hefty running time , spinning a colorful , fact-based story out of consistently engaging characters in the midst of epochal events .
1068182-heat Boosters and touts use the term 'major movie ' so often that it 's more likely to generate yawns than excitement at this point . Back to basics . Heat is a major movie . With major stars . Doing major acting . Fascinante por se concentrar em dois homens que , obcecados por suas profisses , acabam dependendo um do outro justamente por no saberem fazer outra coisa . Just when it seemed that the only hope for crime movies lay in the postmodernist artifice of films like Pulp Fiction , Mann reinvests the genre with brooding , modernist conviction . This one sticks to your gut . All this adds good weight and tension to the movie and provides a lot of very good actors with the opportunity to do honest , probing work in a context where , typically , less will do . The taciturn De Niro and the braying Pacino share a flawless scene over a cup of coffee , but the real honors go to Val Kilmer and Ashley Judd as a warring , loving couple . There have been plenty of cops and robbers stories like Heat over the years , but seldom has the formula been done so well . Robert De Niro 's last great role before he devoted himself to self-parody . It is a remarkably powerful , entertaining and invigorating piece of cinema that hits on more levels than seemingly possible . Heat occupies an exalted position among the countless contemporary crime films . This is a movie about chemistry , straight up . 	Though Al Pacino and Robert De Niro share but a handful of screen minutes together , Heat is an engrossing crime drama that draws compelling performances from its stars -- and confirms Michael Mann 's mastery of the genre .
ghost rider For years scientists have theorized that one day Nicolas Cage would overact so badly that his head would burst into flames . Now , with Ghost Rider , the phenomenon has finally come to pass . If Cage made a deal with the devil to never make a good movie ever again , Ghost Rider completes his transition from A-list star to industry punchline . Whoever the inept Mark Steven Johnson had to sell his soul to in order to get put in charge of two big comic book adaptations , I hope it was worth it . If Ghost Rider wanted to fetch something of value , he should have been out there looking for a better script . A by-the-numbers hammy superhero caper that reaches new levels of blandness . ... often looks like the cheesiest biker tattoo to ever grace bulging , leather-accented biceps . Nicolas Cage wangs it up with a not-so-subtle Elvis impersonation as Johnny Blaze , the comic book hero who transforms into a flaming skeleton bounty hunter for the Devil . Ghost Rider works even less as a movie than it did as a comic book ... once you get past the cool concept and visuals of the character , there really is n't very much else there . The blank , frenetic exhaustion of the final reel acts like a kid who tries to snap out of a candy-binge coma by snorting lines of Pixy Stix . This comic book adaptation is likely to flame out fast . 	Ghost Rider is a sour mix of morose , glum histrionics amidst jokey puns and hammy dialogue .
african cats The wildlife is beautifully photographed , and the film is stentorianally narrated by Sir Patrick Stewart . ... fascinating nature photography . Another Disneynature triumph , especially if you are a fan of these cool cats . African Cats succeeds despite its narrative weakness . It features gorgeous close-ups of all kinds of animals ; the images and sounds are worth the price of the ticket alone . The first entry in the DisneyNature series that 's pitched at youngsters rather than a general audience , despite some intense footage . the film is relatively bloodless and appropriate for all ages Imagine ten Shirley Temples singing `` Animal Crackers in My Soup '' while pawing at rainbow-colored balls of yarn . Anyone with a fondness for bambinos of any species should melt at the sight of mamas with nuzzling cubs . To me , this feels like the 21st century version of the True-Life Adventures in a way that absolutely deserves the Disney name on it . Granted , not even Morgan Freeman could make the African Cats narration endurable , but Jackson really suffers his way through it , alternating between cloyingly overplaying things and rattling off sentences in a bored monotone . 	It is n't quite as majestic as its subjects , but African Cats boasts enough astounding footage -- and a big enough heart -- to keep things entertaining .
dark city The sound and visuals of this movie are not to be missed on the big screen if at all possible . It 's all about the amazing look , cobbled together from an astonishingly evocative range of sources : Nosferatu and Mad Love , Brazil and Metropolis , a haunted mosaic of bits and pieces of movie memories . Has all the visual punch of ... Terry Gilliam and David Fincher , but lacks the narrative and thematic strength of either of those two . Overall , I must say that this film is one that I thoroughly enjoyed from frame one to frame last , and look very forward to watching it over and over again , with nachos by my side , and mind set to 'absorb . ' Um verdadeiro clssico contemporneo da fico cientfica , nos presenteia com um roteiro brilhante , uma fotografia impecvel , uma direo de arte belssima e , claro , com questionamentos filossicos incrivelmente instigantes . A wonderfully complex and startlingly visionary epic . I love this movie . If you do n't fall in love with it , you 've probably never fallen in love with a movie , and never will . Writer/Director Alex Proyas needs to stop it with the writing and concentrate on making the pretty . He needs to find a good script and just direct it . City ultimately plays like one of those art-deco dystopian CD-ROM adventures of recent years . Lots of style here , not nearly enough substance 	Stylishly gloomy , Dark City offers a polarizing whirl of arresting visuals and noirish action .
redline Redline mostly feels like one long stunt intercut with the boring parts of a porn movie . The whole thing is pretty stupid , but Angus Macfadyen is watchable as the villain . Redline is the kind of movie where they spent so much on the fast cars they forgot to save any for acting lessons or screenplay rewrites . Redline continues the mind-boggling trend of films that choose to justify their existence by piling on layer after layer of meaningless excess . It 's hard to say whether gleaming automobiles or women 's bodies are given the more fetishlike treatment in this vanity production . Everything you 'd expect it to be , and yet so much less : less character development , less believability , and most unforgivably , less escapist entertainment . Mindless auto racing film a drag for teens and up . Do yourself a favor and stay home . Griffin 's 21-second wrecking-the-Enzo video on YouTube is more exciting ( and better directed , and better acted ... ) than anything in Redline . Redline is n't exactly a car wreck , mainly because it 's far less exciting and you can , in fact , look away . Although the movie 's artistic merits are virtually nonexistent , Sadek does understand his audience , most of whom are unlikely to be acquainted yet with two key aspects of the film : driver 's licenses and women . 	Redline has plenty of bad acting , laughable dialogue , and luxury cars .
middle men A colorful supporting cast gives this uneven Internet porn saga a potent boost . Far from a classic and wo n't tug at your heartstrings , but it manages to be captivating from top to bottom with a refreshingly sharp and funny screenplay , a great ensemble cast and a lively soundtrack . Considering the naughty subject matter , Middle Men is a shockingly dull affair . Inspired by the reputed experiences of the film 's producer , Middle Men casts its protagonist in a suspiciously flattering light ... Fortunately Wilson brings enough dark and disreputable shades to the character for the film to work . Take away the nudity and sleaze , and at its heart Middle Men is about billing . No wonder it needed all the jiggling . With outstanding performances from a brilliant ensemble cast , Middle Men turns out to be wickedly entertaining with some of the best acting you will see all year . Mr. Gallo , for his part , is content to decorate a fairly conventional , intermittently entertaining crime chronicle with a bit of skin and a soupon of pop sociology . There must be other ways to learn about pornography on the Internet . Gallo 's self-consciously overstated direction feeds the impression that he 's trying to remake Goodfellas ... can we all agree by now that the use of `` Sympathy for the Devil '' in crime pictures ought to be outlawed ? Middle Men is an anxious film , but not in a good way , in that it does n't generate suspense so much as dread . Trust me when I say there is too much story here for a film that runs just over 100 minutes . 	Middle Men benefits from a solid cast , particularly Luke Wilson , but its muddled script lets them down .
hook muddled but fascinating You just have to appreciate its creative angle toward Peter Pan and his world . It 's worth a look . But overall , Hook feels like an exercise in cynicism . This enormous wheeze comes over like the proverbial movie with a 40 million dollar set and a five cent script , which may hold its interest for under-fives but will leave most others cold . In the end , Hook is n't great or terrible , but it 's both - a film that has some wonderful moments , and some really awful ones `` Peter Pan '' redo has its moments with Hoffman and Williams . One of Spielberg 's rare and true misfires . It 's weirdly creepy when it 's not being bombastically boring . Hook breaks the cardinal rule of J.M . Barrie 's timeless fantasy -- it grows up . Spielberg gives in to his worst tendencies , and turns Peter Pan into a day-glo mess . The exposition is so underlined and re-underlined , you could teach yourself to fly waiting for something to happen . 	The look of Hook is lively indeed but Steven Spielberg directs on autopilot here , giving in too quickly to his sentimental , syrupy qualities .
the santa clause 2 Bah humbug . A pleasant holiday diversion , but like most sequels , not as good as the original movie . The film has no pretensions other then being exactly what it is : a sweet , slickly manufactured tale for the whole family , a holiday diversion cut to fit everyone from 6 to 60 . The movie is as padded as Allen 's jelly belly . The Santa Clause 2 is quite the delightful little holiday experience , packed tightly with visual treasures , neat little characters , and the occasional in-joke that the adults will take a liking to Kids probably will find it rip-roaring holiday fun , and it is rated G to boot . Silly in all the places the first one was sincere . The Santa Clause 2 's plot may sound like it was co-written by Mattel executives and lobbyists for the tinsel industry . In spite of featuring a script credited to no fewer than five writers , apparently nobody here bothered to check it twice . Not so much funny as aggressively sitcom-cute , it 's full of throwaway one-liners , not-quite jokes , and a determined TV amiability that Allen personifies . 	Though it 's harmless as family entertainment and has moments of charm , The Santa Clause 2 is also predictable and forgettable .
cedar rapids 2010 [ VIDEO ] Ed Helms comfortably nails his part as small-town insurance salesman Tim Lippe with just the right amount of internal anguish . Raunchy comedy is packed with sex , drinking , and swearing . At 80-some minutes , the film is about the right length with a decent register of laughs . What gets lost is what I suspect is a more rounded comedy about religious hypocrisy and not judging a person 's inner goodness by their outer conduct . It may sound a flimsy premise , but director Miguel Arteta delivers a laugh-out-loud ride that plays like a white-collar executive take on Animal House , and Phil Johnston 's script is awash with quotable one-liners . One of the things I admire most about director Miguel Arteta 's films ( including Chuck & Buck and The Good Girl ) is that he shows such compassion for his characters . Ping-pongs between empathetic chuckles at Helms 's charming social awkwardness and putting him through a raunchfest ringer . A foul-mouthed but good-natured comedy roughly in the Apatow mould . No more and no less than its premise suggests , the film delivers the laughs . Reilly is an absolute hoot as a glad-handing carouser with an inexhaustible supply of cheesy catchphrases , while Heche finds unexpected depth as a wife and mother on the prowl . Cedar Rapids is both hilarious and heartfelt . It 's also powered by a dream cast , led by the outstanding Ed Helms . 	It 's as conventional as its Midwestern setting , but Cedar Rapids boasts a terrific cast and a script that deftly blends R-rated raunch and endearing sweetness .
sixty-six It 's cliched and gooey , but because it 's English , and has Helena Bonham Carter in a rare non-gothy role , viewers may be fooled into thinking it 's quirky . No . Offbeat , nostalgic , wonderful . Weiland has given us something we can cheer and feel good about . A dolorous comedy that leans heavily , if inoffensively , on ethnic stereotypes . For anyone who preferred Oliver Bean to Malcolm in the Middle . Given the personal nature of the material , though , it 's a shame Weiland resorts to the kind of coarse ethnic caricatures one hoped had died with Mike and Bernie Winters . It ( TM ) s designed to be crowd-pleasing and tug on hearts across the board , but there ( TM ) s a manipulative quality that will put a ceiling on business . There is an attempt at a feelgood ending , but I was n't convinced . A thick , gooey layer of voiceover narration from Bernie is just one of several tired devices that makes pic feel hackneyed , despite some choice cuts of dialogue . It 's labeled a 'true-ish story ' , and the results are cheeky fun . 	Likable but overly sentimental , Sixty Six has snatches of sharp dialogue but is ultimately too predicable .
bridesmaids 2011 The ensemble produces some decent laughs . Wiig 's characters may lose their lunch , but they never lose their heart . `` Bridesmaids '' is bust-a-gut funny , a high-adrenaline string of slapstick gags and verbal hysteria . The first hour is one outrageously hilarious catfight . It comes at a price , though , because the second is where the girls all kiss and make-up . Here is Kristen Wiig 's star turn . She co-writes , co-produces and headlines Bridesmaids , playing a woman who 's , I dunno , roughly 26 percent comedically psychotic , but not so loony that she goes over the edge from sympathetic to repellent . Bridesmaids is a groundbreaker . Usually it 's dudes suffering from explosive bowel movements , getting drunk and disorderly , and spitting out the one word you 'd better not call any woman . Not exactly a banner for feminism but equal time is overdue . Bridesmaids takes chances , colors outside the box , and breaks the unwritten rules for what a female-driven comedy can and ca n't do . This is the sort of thing that will be beloved by many , by almost everyone who sees it . The movie is uneven and lurching , but it provides many laughs . Bridesmaids is a chick flick in the way that a Rolls-Royce is a ride . 	A marriage of genuine characters , gross out gags , and pathos , Bridesmaids is a female-driven comedy that refuses to be boxed in as Kristen Wiig emerges as a real star .
hes just not that into you Couples who want to stay happy might want to think twice before seeking out a movie about how the majority of relationships end up making people paranoid and miserable . It looks harmless enough , this chick flick about attraction , rejection and commitment , but if you look closer , you might be irritated to discover women are portrayed as brainless , man-crazy twits unable to think straight when it comes to the mating game He 's Just Not That Into You succeeds more with clever one-liners than in its uneven scenarios . But it 's light and entertaining , and its heart -- visible amid the cynicism -- is in the right place . The women are catty , whiny depressives with zero personality . The men are shallow , flippant and lack the emotional depth of a grapefruit spoon . It 's about social responsibility . Everyone 's so afraid of hurt feelings . People need to stop making excuses . Hey , it 's not all okay . Get over it . And also , stop asking your friends to make you feel better . They give the worst advice . Just go out and have Everyone pitches in , but it is n't enough to rescue a tedious , fragmented , scattershot script . This voyeuristic escapist fare offers a mixed bag of goodies . What makes He 's Just Not That Into You work are the things that Hollywood does well -- a few good jokes , a lot of pleasant performances and two brief hours of grown-up entertainment and escape . The film has a few funny jokes , and I 'd sooner watch this kind of fluff than endure a humourless middlebrow relationship drama . The scattershot approach to storytelling does n't do justice to any one storyline , making it nearly impossible to care much about any particular character . 	Despite the best efforts of a talented cast , He 's Just Not That Into You devotes too little time to each of its protagonists , thus reducing them to stereotypes .
blue jasmine Blanchett an excellent Blanche A deeply compelling , often darkly comic , and undeniably brilliant film . Cate Blanchett sets the new standard for actors portraying wildly dysfunctional people . Jasmine is rich material for Blanchett ... but then there 's the dull compliments Allen 's characters pay the city : `` It 's so Mediterranean , '' they exclaim . `` If you ca n't fall in love here , you ca n't fall in love anywhere . '' Blanchett owns this movie as thoroughly as her character owns her delusions . Just when it seemed like Allen was going to settle for cranking out a comic bauble every year for the rest of his career , he comes up with a vital and vibrant knockout of a movie . It holds its own thanks to Blanchett 's stunning take on Jasmine , whose incandescent and ongoing meltdowns are mesmerizing to behold . Allen is a famously hands-off director , and while this method succeeds on occasion , too many scenes in Blue Jasmine betray a directorial negligence . Jasmine 's ride is not nearly as dramatic as Blanche DuBois ' emotional deconstruction in Streetcar , but her journey is made tolerable by an Oscar-worthy performance by Cate Blanchett . Plenty of fine actresses have delighted in Allen 's snappish comic rhythms , which the writer never really loses , even in drama . Or in drama borrowed from Tennessee Williams . Blue Jasmine marks a high-water mark for Blanchett , and for Allen , who demonstrates both the craftsmanship and the unique gift for balancing comedy and pathos which has eluded him for so long . 	Woody Allen 's Blue Jasmine finds the director in peak late-period form -- and benefiting from a superb cast led by Cate Blanchett .
1012515-little shop of horrors It takes a little genius to turn a Z-grade Corman horror flick into a hit musical comedy ... and a little more to sucessfully return it to the big screen . Entertaining , but it 's a conceit that works better onstage . The movie does n't labor its jokes or insist on its virtuoso special effects , but devotes its energies to seeming unforced and delightful . Some of the slower tunes tend to grind but the sort of musical/ retro irony is still amusing in places . Not if you do n't like dentists though . I 'm in love with Ellen Greene ! A lively and frequently hilarious adaptation of the the Menken-Ashman stage musical . A full-blown movie musical , and quite a winning one . The best moments in this 1987 release belong to Dr. Steve Martin as a dentist with a professional yen for pain . Screen writer and lyricist Howard Ashman has mastered the essence of '80s humor , recycling the old with a hip knowingness , all with a morbid , outrageous edge . The film represents a rare example where Hollywood has applied itself rigorously to material that might somehow seem beneath it with wholly satisfying results . 	Remixing Roger Corman 's B-movie by way of the Off-Broadway musical , Little Shop of Horrors offers camp , horror and catchy tunes in equal measure -- plus some inspired cameos by the likes of Steve Martin and Bill Murray .
keane A surprise , and a highly effective film , much more accomplished and less punishing than Clean , Shaven . Keane maintains its gritty , unsettling edge as it quietly leads up to a potentially even more troubling finale . Keane , Kerrigan 's third feature , is his real breakthrough . It rests on British-born Lewis ' astonishing performance . His characterization is so bold , so raw and so far out on an emotional ledge that you ca n't help but fear he 'll never find his way back . [ Keane ] is unfortunately akin to a rat-in-the-maze science experiment . Lewis , in an astonishingly elastic yet disciplined performance , invests Keane with a richly ambiguous , heartbreaking inner life that 's only at peace when he manages to form a tenuous human connection . Keane is a movie you might see on a dare , and though I think it is brilliantly conceived , I would n't dare to dare you . It 's an amazing piece of work . The film is much more realistic than entertaining . It is like bad Bresson , if that were a possibility . All signifiers and no meaning ; all tics and no truths ; all mute emoting and no emotion . 	The scrutinizing camera angles of Keane might at first feel too close for comfort , but this powerful portrait of a man distraught by the abduction of his child plumbs the depths of mental illness and the corners of fleabag hotels in an intimate and touching examination of the seedier side of life .
inconvenient truth The movie 's impact overcomes any discomfort with Gore or his politics . In the battle between Big Trouble ( Gore 's line ) and Big Oil ( Bush 's ) , fossil fuel won . Even with gas prices it 's still winning , which is why An Inconvenient Truth , for all its limitations as cinematic agitprop , deserves an audience . Although it 's the most important film of the year , it will still be a hard sell to hard-headed truth-deniers . A vitally important lesson , told in bland charts and alarming images . This may be the first documentary in memory that will have audiences clamoring , `` More hard data ! More charts ! '' An Inconvenient Truth makes a powerful argument that only the willfully deaf will fail to hear . Where he won me back was when he started talking about the population issues ... Perhaps this should be a birth control film as well as an environmental one . What could have been mired in political rhetoric or techno-speak is instead illuminating , fascinating and sometimes frightening . ... the fundamental obstacle to making the average human aware and concerned about the ecology is a matter of comprehending scale -- a problem which the formerly robotic Democrat tackles rather elegantly . This movie will shake you , especially if you have kids . The central facts are piling up in a way that disturbs anything but indolent complacency . 	While global warming is a hotly-debated subject , what everyone on both sides can agree upon is that , if real , it 's a very bad thing . Since losing the 2000 presidential election to George W. Bush , former Vice President Al Gore has busied himself by being an outspoken figure against this potential environmental disaster . As much about the man as about greenhouse gases , this candid , powerful and informative documentary illuminates some of the myths surrounding both of its subjects equally well .
following Mesmerizing neo-noir drama . a harbinger of things to come , an exercise in the kind of temporal gymnastics , sleight-of-hand shifts in perspective , and rigorous insights into the dark depths of human nature that have defined Nolan 's later films This edgy little bit of nastiness is a good reason to start getting excited about British movies all over again . Christopher Nolan has crafted a spare but gripping black-and-white neo-noir debut feature that features some classic elements of the genre . This clammy , noirish thriller time-hops with a vengeance . Besides the similarities in playing with time and structure , Nolan is already zeroed in on his favorite cinematic theme : obsession . ... offers more pleasure as a jigsaw puzzle than it does as a movie . Low-budget debut from Memento 's director subtly transposes you to a sinful urban nightmare . It 's brilliantly scripted and carefully planned . Yet it feels loose and improvised . Following est un exercice de style et d'ingniosit qui nous rappelle [ Memento ] tout en ayant un cachet bien particulier . 	Super brief but efficient , Following represents director Christopher Nolan 's burgeoning talent in tight filmmaking and hard-edge noir .
dead poets society The best stories and performances , one of the greatest films of the 1980s and a rare classic that should be treasured . All the performances are excellent , particularly the complex shadings of Leonard , but Williams is especially memorable . Tom Schulman 's heartfelt script takes the main character 's relationships with Keating above and beyond the usual student-teacher connection . It 's best left as a fond memory , never to be held up to the light of day . Williams , who has comparatively little screen time , has come to act , not to cut comic riffs , and he does so with forceful , ultimately compelling , simplicity . The movie undercuts Mr. Williams 's exceptionally fine performance , making the character seem more of a dubious fool than is probably intended . In a field of films about drugs , car chases , and plastic monsters , Dead Poets Society is a good choice . As consistent and nearly as understated a performance as Robin Williams would give later in Good Will Hunting . Not the worst of the countless recent movies about good kids and hidebound , authoritatian older people . It may , however , be the most shameless in its attempt to pander to an adolescent audience . Falters when it goes for too much heart-tugging manipulation . 	Affecting performances from the young cast and a genuinely inspirational turn from Robin Williams grant Peter Weir 's prep school drama top honors .
tims vermeer 2014 When Penn & Teller turn their hand to documentary filmmaking , we know it 's going to be something playful . The resulting film is a geek 's dream and a great documentary crossover , touching on art , history , technology , science , optics and even construction techniques as Jenison labours over his replica of Vermeer 's studio . Whether or not Jenison becomes an artist in the process of his quest , there 's no doubting that his commitment to creating art is a creative end unto itself . Here is an entertaining and entirely watchable documentary that sets out to prove that any old brush-swinging amateur can paint as brilliantly as the 17th-century Dutch master . It 's hardly surprising that a movie made by Penn and Teller would feature a mind-bending stunt . What you 're less likely to expect is that it 's a 17th-century Dutch masterpiece that 's pulled out of a hat . You might think that following this insanely ambitious DIY project would be like watching paint dry . Wrong . An original and endearing documentary from Penn & Teller asks the question : How did he do that ? Penn and Teller 's uncanny crowdpleaser begs the question , is it still a masterpiece if an amateur could do it ? The process of putting those three-dimensional objects on canvas in natural light is so fascinating that no one 's going to make jokes about watching paint dry - though at one point the film is literally about watching paint dry . And then applying varnish . The conclusion is jaw dropping , the feat remarkable . 	Entertaining and profound in equal measure , Tim 's Vermeer uses its seemingly esoteric subject to pose fascinating questions about art and obsession .
jonas brothers 3d OMG , the Jonas Brothers in 3-D ! The promise-ring-wearing hotties try to burn down the house , but their Burning Up tour makes for a tepid rock doc . At best , they 're an all-Davy Jones Monkees with varsity soccer co-captain good looks . Parental Content Review This does pretty much what it says on the tin , though the interactive `` 3D '' element does introduce a twist of sorts . It 's A Hard Day 's Night all over again , except nobody has bothered to write the brothers some funny dialogue . It 's a Pavlovian thing . See swarthy ( and shirtless ! ) teen heartthrob Joe Jonas standing backstage in 3-D : scream . For its intended 'tween audience , it 's high-decible and shreik-inducing , but it 's not recommended for anyone over the age of 30 . This current squeaky-clean vocal group is way more talented than its elders were . This personality vacuum is a real problem in a film that purports to depict a day in the life of young pop stars whom audiences can actually relate to . There 's no plot , no character development , no dramatic arc . It just plops you smack down in the epicenter of the JoBro musical youthquake , and away you go . 	Jonas Brothers : The 3-D Concert Experience should please the brothers ' adoring followers , but for non-converts , this concert film is largely flat and unenlightening .
blue valentine Powerful , raw and fluidly shot , this history of a marriage told in shuffled time stars Michelle Williams and Ryan Gosling , two of our finest young actors . A streetside walk on the couple 's first date that ends with Dean crooning `` You Always Hurt the One You Love '' on ukulele while Cindy improvises an uncertain tap dance bursts with affirmation and life . ... when you break it down , [ it ] largely feels genuinely honest , rather than aspiring to an obvious movie facsimile of `` honest . '' Movie intimacy reaches groundbreaking new heights in this shocking story of a young marriage on the rocks . Blue Valentine 's greatest asset is its realism , established by Cianfrance 's unpolished , caught-in-the-moment cinematography and enhanced by a pair of fearless , unglamorous and viciously honest performances . Not first-date material , this sombre portrait of failed dreams is buoyed by excellent leads and a yearning heart . It 's complicated , like real life . A powerful , piercing , brilliantly acted exploration of the ways in which love can die . An Endless Barrage of Misery and Depression Punctuated by Great Acting . Being Breathless Does n't Make Quality Cinema . Assuming one can use the word `` enjoy '' for what might be the greatest feel-bad movie of the year , I enjoyed BLUE VALENTINE a lot . 	This emotionally gripping examination of a marriage on the rocks is n't always easy to watch , but Michelle Williams and Ryan Gosling give performances of unusual depth and power .
bernie 2011 A chafing , rock-in-the-shoe kind of movie -- and I mean this as a compliment . Pitch-perfect performances by Shirley MacLaine and an unusually restrained Jack Black hold together this offbeat true-crime saga , but Linklater 's keen eye for human eccentricity flowers most memorably on the periphery . `` Bernie ' is n't a monumental film , but it is a finely tuned character study with some nice innovations . Simply put , it 's the best movie Linklater has made in years . A sordid , bleak tale about two lonely people drawn to each other like colliding planets . Throughout , there 's a tension of real life and fiction , and a pervading sense that fiction has little chance of matching the real thing . Jack Black gives his best performance to date as the selfless assistant mortician with a taste for the finer things in life , but it is the real life townspeople , spilling on their most infamous citizens , who make `` Bernie '' so delightful . Blackly funny , strangely moving and deeply weird , it 's as comforting and as sinister as a heart-attack-plate of chicken fried steak with biscuits and gravy . And I 'm fixin ' to see it again . The wonder of Black 's performance here is its empathy and balance : inasmuch as he can disappear into any role , he dissolves into this one with no hint of mocking remove . It 's a beautiful thing to see . The movie itself , a partly true and cheerfully embellished account of a Texas murder case , presents a case of narrative drift . 	Richard Linklater 's Bernie is a gently told and unexpectedly amusing true-crime comedy that benefits from an impressive performance by Jack Black .
father of my children ... deceptively astute drama Inception celebrates the manufactured reality , Father of My Children the true one . It 's quiet , unshowy and devastating . French drama Father of My Children addresses an extremely confronting subject with both an unblinking gaze and an open mind . An intelligent and beautifully acted French film about work , death , grief , and finding one 's way back to life . The Father of My Children loses focus and sags into a how-we-got-through-it family procedural . While the movie is far from perfect , those potential missteps are , in the end , part of what makes The Father of My Children so beautiful . When a film is made there should be a reason for doing so . Impressively directed and superbly written , this is an emotionally engaging drama with terrific performances from real life father and daughter Louis-Do and Alice de Lencquesaing . `` The Father of My Children '' is a grand , overflowing , mistake of a movie . 	A tragedy gracefully lifted by tender empathy and moments of joy , Father of My Children is a quiet triumph for writer-director Mia Hansen-Love .
mission impossible rogue nation Mission : Impossible - Rogue Nation might have its hi-tech gadgets , but it 's a pleasingly old-fashioned affair . I like the movie , but Cruise needs to have a huddle with his stylist and work on the hair dye job . It 's not matching up with his complexion , and it makes him look old . Priorities people ! Five movies in , Cruise has perfected the M : I formula -- a simple spy story , passable character comedy , and extremely long , impressively sustained action sequences . Mission : Impossible - Rogue Nation is the best action movie to hit theaters since Mad Max Rockatansky answered our cries back in May , making it the best action movie this summer by far . You sure get your bang for the buck with this one . Tom Cruise , and his team deliver an action packed espionage thriller that 's so eye popping you hardly notice you have no idea of why they 're really doing all that stuff . `` Mission : Impossible - Rogue Nation '' is industrial-strength , stunt-stuffed , thoroughly soulless , yet eminently watchable cinema . Tom Cruise stamps his claim as the greatest action star of our time with this nail biting , stylishly made action thriller filled with incredibly entertaining sequences . A Summer Blockbuster worth the title : in MI 's fifth installment , the Cruise gung-ho approach cements why he 's a true movie hero ! New writers and directors for each installment have kept the creativity flowing , and like the `` Fast and Furious '' movies , the `` Mission : Impossible '' film series has hit its stride later in its run . Extremely well-written and directed by Christopher McQuarrie . Let me repeat . Extremely well-written and directed by the man who counseled Cruise in `` Jack Reacher . '' They apparently click . 	Mission : Impossible Rogue Nation continues the franchise 's thrilling resurgence -- and proves that Tom Cruise remains an action star without equal .
body of war Equal parts sadness and inspiration , fury and compassion , the film is sure to divide audiences along ideological lines . But there 's no denying the reality of Tomas Young 's experiences . A man who has paid so much is more than entitled to his opinions . The lack of ego and relatively little self-pity [ wheelchair-bound Tomas ] Young has is astounding . Donahue and Spiro should 've spent more time exploring the human moments and much less time browbeating us with stuff we already know . Half an excellent and touching profile of a young veteran , but unfortunately , half a strident anti-war propaganda film . Body of War again demonstrates that we Americans still have some bitter truths to face . Drenched in emotion and suffused with good intentions , Body of War is impossible not to like , but difficult to admire . When is a startling and devastating war movie made in the past too long ago to shed light on the present ? Well , apparently never , if we 're talking permanent war characterizing the endless US invasions and occupations around the world . Lazy , shallow and repetitive , Phil Donahue 's Body of War is one of the most incompetent documentaries to emerge from the Iraq war . Body of War makes no bones about its activism . Then again , like the others , it 's the willingness to contextualize events and apply reason to them that makes it and others so valuable . Whatever you think of the film , Body of War stirs up real admiration for its subject . 	Unapologetically political , this intimate and heart wrenching profile of an Iraq veteran may be rough around the edges but takes a potent stance with determination and compassion .
captain-america [ A ] so-so experience . Joe Johnston -- returning to the vibe of his first directorial effort , The Rocketeer ( 1991 ) -- creates a fun retro-futurist environment with a World War II setting , and he has the discernment not to let the effects overwhelm the story . The picture is almost admirably boring , as if director Joe Johnston had wanted to distinguish his movie by not packing it with action , or even bothering much to define the characters . In a year filled with superhero flicks , this one feels a little bit special . Captain America is a breath of fresh air . A gorgeous-looking movie , especially in 3D . Captain America packs a comic , moralistic and patriotic punch that 's well worth watching , regardless of your interest in further following the Marvel adventure . Just a good summer movie . No more , no less . It 's no masterpiece but fun enough to continue to whet the appetite for The Avengers . Captain America paints a simple tale of goodies versus baddies with none of the depth , humor or class of Marvel 's earlier X-Men summer offering . 	With plenty of pulpy action , a pleasantly retro vibe , and a handful of fine performances , Captain America is solidly old-fashioned blockbuster entertainment .
permanent midnight Comes off as manufactured and synthetic as most Hollywood product . Stiller 's attempted image makeover , though admirable , does n't make it . Unsettling and-yes-often scorchingly funny ! Ben Stiller proves his acting chops in this atypical role as a heroin-addicted television writer . Stiller 's fearless performance makes it painfully and graphically clear that being a junkie is an exhausting full-time job . As enveloping as it is darkly cautionary ! A movie to slit your wrist to . Constant sequences of drug taking , one after the other , does not a good film make . This well-told and solidly acted story of his rise and fall is not a pretty sight , but , as with a car wreck , it is riveting nevertheless . It is almost impossible to look away . Witty ! 	Aimless storytelling undermines the gripping , unsettling subject of this film .
the good the bad and the ugly An improbable masterpiece -- a bizarre mixture of grandly operatic visuals , grim brutality and sordid violence that keeps wrenching you from one extreme to the other . Clearly the work of a master filmmaker whose style has never grown stale . Sergio Leone 's grandiose 1966 western epic is nothing less than a masterclass in movie storytelling , a dynamic testament to the sheer , invigorating uniqueness of cinema . This is a great movie , whatever strange estuary of the western river it occupies . An extravagantly plotted epic propelled by waves of free-flowing emotion and a palpable love for the American past The third in the Clint Eastwood series of Italo westerns , The Good , the Bad and the Ugly is exactly that -- a curious amalgam of the visually striking , the dramatically feeble and the offensively sadistic . The defining spaghetti western pits a charismatic Clint Eastwood against partner and nemesis Eli Wallach and perpetual enemy Lee Van Cleef . Sergio Leone 's dramatic directing style is powerful and well delivered , even by today 's standards . Though the restoration is n't substantial , any excuse will do to revisit the moment when a young Clint Eastwood became a star and in the process helped reinvent the Western . The movie that solidified Eastwood 's iconography . Leone 's dazzling Techniscope cinematics far surpass the familiar plot . 	Arguably the greatest of the spaghetti westerns , this epic features a compelling story , memorable performances , breathtaking landscapes , and a haunting score .
brown sugar Given the talent and the twist , it 's as fresh as the classic Tracy-Hepburn comedies . While it 's genuinely cool to hear characters talk about early rap records ( Sugar Hill Gang , etc . ) , the constant referencing of hip-hop arcana can alienate even the savviest audiences . The movie plays cute more than smart , but it 's far from dumb -- and marks yet another baby step forward in the growing sophistication of African-American film . There 's something unintentionally comic in the film 's drumbeat about authenticity , given the stale plot and pornographic way the film revels in swank apartments , clothes and parties . A crumb of psychology would have helped . Makes the same mistake as the music industry it criticizes , becoming so slick and watered-down it almost loses what made you love it in the first place . Taye Diggs never overdoes Dre 's intensity or integrity ; he 's an understated leading man who is all the more likable because of it . But it 's Sanaa Lathan as Sidney who won my heart here . Its likable , easy rhythms are appealing , especially for anyone attuned to the birth and growth of this style of music . Lathan and Diggs carry the film with their charisma , and both exhibit sharp comic timing that makes the more hackneyed elements of the film easier to digest . True to its title , this hip-hop When Harry Met Sally is plenty sweet , but is that what we really want from a film set in the world of rap music ? 	Though predictable and possibly too sweet , Brown Sugar is charming , well-acted , and smarter than typical rom-com fare .
1061812-little princess It 's not only suitable for consumption by those over age 10 , it 's actually enjoyable . The 1939 Shirley Temple version of this book came closer to capturing Sara 's vitality . A Little Princess is a delightful film . Bring your children , or just bring yourself . An exemplary version of Frances Hodgson Burnett 's novel . No es una pelcula . Es un trozo de magia esparcido sobre el celuloide . [ Best character was ] Indian manservant who almost never spoke ... Powerful eyes . One of the very best children 's movies of the past quarter-century . Mexican director Alfonso Cuaron gives the film a nice feel for a New York girls ' school of the time ( though actually the novel was set in an English girls ' school ) . From the exquisite costumes to the remarkable set design to the superb performances , this fairy tale comes to life in a way that makes you despair at its ending . But though end it must , its spirit of imagination and its magic of abiding love lingers on . Enchanting drama based on a children 's classic . 	Alfonso Cuarn adapts Frances Hodgson Burnett 's novel with a keen sense of magic realism , vividly recreating the world of childhood as seen through the characters .
duplicity 2009 `` Duplicity '' is so heavily back-loaded that it demands the audience take a leap of faith that all narrative debts will be paid off in a third act finale . No such luck . Too convoluted to be romantic , too confusing to be an effective caper and too long to be entertaining . I ca n't believe I 'm writing this in a dumbed down age at the movies but Duplicity is a film that 's too smart for its own good . Duplicity is another one of those flicks where everything is confusing until the very end but Gilroy does a great job building the chemistry between Roberts and Owen . You simply have n't had this much fun at the multiplex in a long , long time . Neither a conventional spy flick nor a traditional romantic comedy , Duplicity is a satisfying mix of the two that 's as entertaining as it is thought-provoking Gilroy keeps it all moving at a steady , stylish pace . With its smart writing delivered by an in-synch quartet , savor Duplicity as the ideal spring gift . This film entertains through gameplay , turning suspenseful , comic , then romantic as if in the hands of a master card dealer . But Gilroy 's trickeries can be revealed by just slightly encroaching the stage . Whatever the onscreen dilemma for Clive Owen 's Ray and Julia Roberts ' Claire , for us , it 's a no-brainer . This slick and persuasive crime thriller has so much chemistry and chutzpah ; we 're hooked from the start 	Duplicity is well-crafted , smart , and often funny , but it 's mostly more cerebral than visceral and features far too many plot twists .
whip it Honest , touching , and a little sad . Whip It starts off as a tale about letting loose but ends up as one about letting go . This film is so boring that after an hour I was ready to bolt . It picked up a little in the last 50 minutes , but not enough to recommend . A classically constructed coming of age story that fully embraces its girl power attitude . It will not change the way you think about movies , roller derby or the relations between teenage girls and their mothers , friends or dreams . But it does invite you to stop and appreciate all those things . Manages to make a sport about women on roller skates beating the crap out of each other tedious . It does n't reach for an epic scale but is comfortable in its humility , and that makes it all the more stellar ... Whip It ended up being a total blast . For her first film as a director , Barrymore 's done a bang-up job . Drew Barrymore 's directorial debut is slight yet charming . An excellent freshman feature , I can hardly wait to see what Barrymore picks for her sophomore effort . [ W ] orks within Hollywood conventions of storytelling to handily demonstrate that just because a tale is familiar does n't mean it ca n't be fresh and funny and edgy , too ... 	While made from overly familiar ingredients , Drew Barrymore 's directorial debut has enough charm , energy , and good-natured humor to transcend its many cliches .
1141193-hide and seek Basically another episode of Lifestyles of the Upscale and Haunted that features the latest example of Robert DeNiro in full `` Where 's my paycheck ? '' mode . illiterate ... a desperate film that runs out of gas quickly devolves into a camp parody of everything it purports to be about , including Robert De Niro 's acting ability The movie 's main purpose seems to be to make audiences squirm uncomfortably . Yelp and shriek in armchair-clawing glee ? Not likely . Check it out if you like the horror genre . It was not bad at all . To enjoy this movie you have to leave logic outside the theater and just go for the thrills and chills . As for DeNiro , I 'd rather seem him do another commercial than watch him waste both his time and mine on material that Steven Seagal would reject . Hide and Seek is a technically slicker paranoid thriller than director John Polson 's previous Swimfan , but its esteemed posture makes it even trashier . A lame showcase for DeNiro 's monotonous blankness and the hysterics of Fanning . It 's a fascinating meeting of equals -- if the child star challenged the master to a game of stare-down , the legend might very well blink first . 	Robert De Niro and especially Dakota Fanning have earned some praise for their work in Hide and Seek , but critics have called the rest of the film derivative , illogical and somewhat silly .
star trek first contact The first stretch and the home stretch are so filled with visual interest and , more importantly , with the patented Star Trek philosophical and humorous tidbits that fans will gladly suffer the dull Borg patch for the pleasure of the rest . Deftly combining parts of Alien , Moby Dick and Close Encounters of the Third Kind , First Contact starts quickly and does n't let up . First Contact is often great fun and is never less than watchable ; it will positively delight legions of Trek fans . The story is typical sci-fi fantasy , but the conviction of the cast -- most notably the always-phenomenal Stewart -- makes you believe and care . It does a good job of serving up elements that will please the fans of the show , but it does not quite stand on its own as a memorable motion picture event . ... a huge step beyond Generations . First Contact manages to rev some additional life into the series . One of the better entries in the Trek movie series , thanks to the most memorable villains from the Next Generation television series : the Borg It has the melodrama of other episodes of the films but fewer absurdities this time around . It robustly apes James Cameron 's Aliens , even down to the head villain , played with kinky boo-hiss relish by Alice Krige , who appears to be channeling equal parts Cameron 's Alien Queen and Marlene Dietrich . 	While fans of the series will surely appreciate it , First Contact is exciting , engaging , and visually appealing enough to entertain Star Trek novices .
caddyshack ... some of the juvenile jokes land in the rough , but you wo n't forget Bill Murray 's turn as a goofball groundskeeper obsessed with blowing a pesky gopher to kingdom come . The first-time director , Harold Ramis , ca n't hold it together : the picture lurches from style to style ( including some ill-placed whimsy with a gopher puppet ) and collapses somewhere between sitcom and sketch farce . Despite being ungainly , Caddyshack is the kind of comedy you can pan for gold in ... [ Blu-ray ] Caddyshack , a derelict farce that lurches about in search of hilarious possibilities among the members and employes of a country club , is the latest misbegotten spawn of National Lampoon 's Animal House . dependant almost entirely -- when it 's not being angry and cynical -- on arrogance and smugness . If you 're still at the age when farting and nose-picking seem funny , then Caddyshack should knock you dead . Never mind the fact that the plot regularly goes off track and into the rough , Caddyshack offers laughs a plenty . Classic '80s comedy ; not for kids . Director Harold Ramis does n't help matters through his lethargic staging of several major slapstick sequences . Does it hold together as a quality comedy ? No , not really . 	Though unabashedly crude and juvenile , Caddyshack nevertheless scores with its classic slapstick , unforgettable characters , and endlessly quotable dialogue .
yossi 2013 `` Yossi '' has an air of lightness but never feels insignificant . It 's serious about its characters and their emotions , but still finds room for humor . A dramatically challenging sequel , given warmly effective heart and soul by lead actor Ohad Knoller . Hovers somewhere between a realistic take on love and the vision of romance sold by drugstore novels . The several allusions to Thomas Mann 's forbidden-love novel `` Death in Venice '' are apt , but `` Yossi '' is also a standalone film and an extraordinary sequel . The film 's central romance veers into the realm of wish-fulfillment , but it 's still drawn with tenderness and sensitivity ... A few rough edges , but has a lot to say about finding love whether you 're gay or straight . An authentic study of the loneliness of a closeted gay man and his struggle to break free from this prison . His struggles remain compelling , thanks to Knoller 's sad-eyed authenticity . Dour and obvious , this is a disappointing footnote to the original . 	Smart , moving , and deeply empathetic , Yossi is a thoughtful examination of love and grief .
nowhere boy Visual artist Sam Taylor-Wood casts aside her moody conceptual art and directs a lively , insightful and slightly nostalgic look at the drama of John Lennon 's formative years and his relationship with the two women who brought him up . Although this is a film about the influential women in Lennon 's life , it succeeds equally in its evocation of the family Lennon built among his boyhood mates . Fascinating ... fills in a lot of blank spaces in the Beatles history we already knew . This is not a biopic in the mould of Walk The Line or Ray ; it is the story of a troubled childhood and a determined and strong-minded young man who uses his love of music to overcome a bitter and uncomfortable domestic past . Watch for the emotion that manages to bubble up through that pasty , buttoned-up , stiff-upper-lip , postwar England . This beautifully written and directed biopic has a strong ring of truth to it , mainly due to Taylor-Wood 's artistic approach to filmmaking . It also features extremely complex characters and a remarkably vivid collection of events . Nowhere Boy has just about enough music and biographical detail to appeal to Lennon and Beatles fans but it 's far more intimate than the typical rock star biopic . A passable drama , and might make a nice double feature with Backbeat . There is something a bit bland , a bit kitchen sink , a bit telemovie , about this portrait of the artist as a young man . Rather than dwelling on the unique circumstances that produced a musical genius , it 's an affecting movie about coming of age and leaving home , and about the radical changes in British life since the Second World War . 	Do n't expect any musical insights , but this look at John Lennon 's early life benefits from its restrained , low-key approach and some fine acting from Aaron Johnson .
1003318-butch cassidy and the sundance kid An all-time classic , with Newman as his charming , roguish best and Redford exuding both sex appeal and danger . A whimsical Western that superbly blends actiion , humor and the power of myth making . One of cinema 's greatest ever advertisements for pure entertainment ... Stylish Hollywood entertainment , albeit unworthy of its near-mythical status . This sharply written script is far more cute than I 'd expected , but still a lot of fun . This is the ultimate Paul Newman - Robert Redford movie . The two are charismatic , good-looking , smart and funny . Funny , sad , classic . Although Butch Cassidy was n't the first movie to pair up a couple of wisecracking best friends in an action/adventure setting , this film became the model of how well that approach could work when done right . Funny and poignant tale of two famous outlaws . It is a great film and will be an exceptionally popular and profitable one . Very funny in a strictly contemporary way-the last exuberant word on movies about the men of the mythic American West who have outlived their day . 	With its iconic pairing of Paul Newman and Robert Redford , jaunty screenplay and Burt Bacharach score , Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid has gone down as among the defining moments in late-'60s American cinema .
date night For all the problems , Carell and Fey keep us interested in finding out what happens to their characters . We want them to make it out of Manhattan safely , and for them to have some actual fun . The main delight here is the combination of Carell and Fey , both accomplished comedians , who succeed in making `` a boring married couple from New Jersey '' not only engaging heroes but believable ones . You might find yourself laughing despite yourself , and more than the movie deserves . What the film turned out to be is a good movie but not a great one . The blooper outtakes over the end credits are funnier than the entire movie.The standout cameo belongs to J.B. Smoove playing a ... Carell and Fey are gifted comedians , as anyone familiar with their TV work can attest . They both deserve a better outing than 'Date Night . ' Hugely enjoyable , sharply written and frequently hilarious comedy with a pair of note-perfect comic performances from Steve Carell and Tina Fey . A constant stream of expert guest performers in supporting roles keeps the movie fresh and energetic . Date Night feels too much like a lame married couple version of Adventures in Babysitting with its mild humour and tensionless action . Carell and Fey ... can telegraph anxiety , humiliation and exasperated affection in a glance . They give the film a boost even Levy ca n't deflate . 	An uneasy blend of action and comedy , Date Night does n't quite live up to the talents of its two leads , but Steve Carell and Tina Fey still manage to shine through most of the movie 's flaws .
sweet land Not a great film , something to watch when it comes on cable , not for a night out to the theater . Ali Selim 's visual masterpiece recalls the stark artistry of Terrence Malick and Western lyricism of Larry McMurtry , as it turns every frame into a picture postcard of stunning beauty . a gentle , well-observed drama ... old-fashioned but in a good sense . ... Reaser and Guinee are such open , animated actors that Inge and Olaf 's emotions are easily understandable even if their words are not . What matters in Sweet Land are the moments between the words being spoken , the mute characters as seen in reaction shots , and the images of flat , grassy Minnesota landscapes and big sky . Characters ' motivations and behaviours wobble all over the map - even within single scenes - making for a profoundly frustrating and disappointing experience for viewers . A film of uncommon grace , one that transports you to an America that seems innately familiar even though you have never seen it depicted on-screen quite like this before . ... a beautifully photographed film ... that celebrates its regional identity . Sweet Land values interconnectedness -- in a couple , among a community , with the land , and with ancestors -- and powerfully illustrates it within the story 's emotional and visual content . Minnesota between the wars is a bone yard for dreams , yet , like Babette 's Feast , the film plucks a tiny miracle from stony ground . A torturously slow meditation on the tribulations of immigrant farmers that strains for an elegiac tone . 	Finding the right balance between subtle and sentimental , Sweet Land moves beyond other similarly-themed dramas with evocative cinematography that plays an equal role to the talented cast .
dead girl Karen Moncrieff 's previous film , the shallow and pretentious Blue Car , in no way prepares you for this superbly acted , emotionally acute picture . Intriguing and unpredictable , this multi-layered film delivers a profound ripple effect as it explores the complexities of anger , grief , denial and retribution the faces of The Dead Girl , and their ways of reacting to utter awfulness , are preserved in your memory for days afterward Confusing until you see all the loosely connected shortstories in the series . Or : Life Sucks and Then You Die : The Movie . An emotionally disturbing film about a victim of a serial killer . I do n't remember when I 've seen a movie with as many exceptional female performances as those in 'The Dead Girl . ' Brilliantly written and even better directed by Karen Moncreiff , The Dead Girl represents a rather remarkable innovation in the female empowerment genre . I neither gained any knowledge nor experienced pleasure or deep emotion of any sort ; the best that can be said is that I was n't bored or offended . Moncrieff chooses to scrutinize highly unpleasant material but , fortunately , she never takes an exploitative or sensationalistic approach . The movie has its integrity . 	This dark thriller boasts a fresh approach , but it can still get bogged down by its heavy subject matter .
the hunger games catching fire the type of movie you hope no one ever brings up in polite company because you do n't want to look like an a****** . Renewed purpose to this part two , finding Catching Fire skillfully communicating beats of unrest and despair , locating a way to help the ongoing franchise settle in as an energizing story of an underground uprising . Catching Fire is not quite a full course , more of an amuse bouche , making its mammoth audience hungry for future , meatier instalments . The Hunger Games : Catching Fire achieves what every sequel should strive for - a film that surpasses its predecessor in every way . An improvement in almost every way from its pretty decent predecessor . Things close with a surprising plot twist and a promising cliffhanger , which suggests the secret to the films ' success is embedded in the books . Fails to fully develop some intriguing themes ... but still passes the audience engagement test thanks to some exciting action and the strength of Lawrence 's heroine Cleverly helmed by popular music video director Francis Lawrence . Everything that felt clumsy in The Hunger Games has been improved upon here . Now the violence is not merely physical , but existential . Far from having won her freedom as promised , Katniss is now imprisoned in a false public narrative-supporter of the Capitol , lover of Peeta-from which she may never escape . 	Smart , smoothly directed , and enriched with a deeper exploration of the franchise 's thought-provoking themes , Catching Fire proves a thoroughly compelling second installment in the Hunger Games series .
sex and the city 2 It 's an almost avant-garde adventure in aimlessness . There 's still enough of the Sex and the City magic for those who fell in love with the show more than a decade ago . Nothing is as smart as it was ; it 's not as edgy , it 's not as cute , it 's sagged a bit . But then , have n't we all ? I realize that gaudy fantasy is essential to this franchise , but why does the fantasy have to be so stunted ? It 's supposed to be Sex and the City . This is Sects and the Souk . This is the new torture porn . It 's worse than Sex and the City 1 , and that alone is a remarkable achievement . Glamour porn with fashion that looks like Lady Gaga at a Wal-Mart shopping spree and a plot that at times is cinematic roadkill . Nonetheless , these are still likable and entertaining characters . The movie did its job and because of that , I enjoyed it . The nasty critic assault is a 'veiled ' attack on sexual empowerment of older women . And makes it seem that females are pariahs more here than the Mideast . If only these 'make war not love ' critics were as outspokenly outraged against the US military there While I think it 's cute that people get all dressed up and have little parties going to this movie , the actual film is a hellish , embarrassing abomination . A miscalculation of feminine power so extreme that our country 's threat level should immediately be raised . 	Straining under a thin plot stretched to its limit by a bloated running time , Sex and the City 2 adds an unfortunate coda to the long-running HBO series .
1083436-1083436-out of sight It 's refreshing to find a picture like Out of Sight , which is not only smart , but a great deal of fun , as well . Out of Sight is slick in all the right ways . The movie is wonderfully cast -- it has the strongest bench of any movie this year , with Albert Brooks and Don Cheadle in key supporting roles . It 's amazing that a film based on one of his novels has realized how to appropriately connect two characters emotionally with their audience . Clooney and Lopez are so laid back , they anesthetize the proceedings . In playing a career criminal who ca n't get a break , Clooney has finally found a movie role that adroitly showcases his smoldering good looks and smart-aleck demeanor . From the deadpan line delivery of stars George Clooney and Jennifer Lopez to the funky electric piano and wah-wah guitar on the soundtrack , this adaptation of Elmore Leonard 's 1996 crime novel stays hip and never breaks a sweat . For George Clooney and Jennifer Lopez , Out of Sight stands as their best work . A splendid reminder of just how assured , intelligent and involving Soderbergh 's movies can be . Soderbergh plays it a little too cool , not allowing the story 's ironic and comedic rim shots to resonate . 	Steven Soderbergh 's intelligently crafted adaptation of the Elmore Leonard novel is witty , sexy , suprisingly entertaining , and a star-making turn for George Clooney .
white god White God is a feat of practical filmmaking ... White God is n't for everyone . But it is an unflinching , extraordinary piece of film-making . It affects a general air of artistically inclined realism , but it 's mostly concerned with building tension via a steady accumulation of flatly conceived misery . Think `` The Incredible Journey '' crossed with `` The Birds '' crossed with `` Rise of the Planet of the Apes . '' Or maybe just imagine `` Cujo '' as told from the dog 's point of view . Do n't take grandma . A broad but often poignant allegory of oppression , it 's like the beautiful puppy of Au Hasard Balthazar and The Plague Dogs . Superbly acted allegorical drama with a climax that is not only breathtakingly exciting but flawlessly handled . ... a triumphantly idiosyncratic film with smarts and visceral impact in equal measure . `` White God '' is n't the first film to suggest that humanity 's cruel treatment of others will one day come back to haunt us . But it certainly makes its point with potent force . Engrossing , and open to any number of metaphorical readings -- but not for people who ca n't handle simulated animal abuse in movies . Suffers at times from a scattershot tone ... ( but ) Its marauding former pets and unresolved ending reminded me most of Hitchcock 's `` The Birds . '' That 's certainly not a bad film to aspire to while crafting a needed cautionary tale . 	White God is n't an easy watch , but its soaring ambition and powerful acting -- human and canine alike -- make it well worth the effort .
1109137-heist Great verbiage aside , the red herrings and manipulations boil down to too much of a good thing . The Score got away clean , without resorting to violence . Heist is n't so lucky . This house of cards goes down in a hail of bullets . This is so incredibly below average , very disappointing . Once again the writing is at fault and it 's just baffling because of who 's at the helm . A minor work by a major guy . As a caper movie , Heist is as good as any you 'll see . As a David Mamet movie , it leaves something to be desired . A perfectly pleasurable ride . The cast is brilliant , the plotting ingenious , the dialogue incendiary . It 's consistently fun , occasionally funny , and will have viewers on the edges of their seats on more than one occasion . This is a world not unlike superhero comics , only in this world the heroes have the superhuman ability to knock down buildings with a split-second comeback line . It 's 99 and 44/100 % pure Mamet all the way . 	Heist did n't cover any new ground , but the cast and Mamet 's expertise with witty banter make it worthwhile .
vertigo One of the everlasting Hitchcockian masterpieces . Must-see Hitchcock thriller for any classic movie bug . There is a glumness to the film that is notably missing from the director 's other films of the period . Hitchcock 's rich and strange fable of love lost , and lost again , makes the case for him as a grand experimental artist who labored in genre cinema . You watch this guy going slowly over the brink and realize , good grief , this is Jimmy Stewart . Hitchcock seems to have been motivated by personal demons here . It 's as much a wonder of suspense as it is a catalogue of the director 's themes and an allegory for his own art of enticement-and for the erotic pitfalls of his mtier . Alfred Hitchcock 's control of the audience is most complete in Vertigo . This is a great , well-made film that deserves every bit of recognition that has been heaped upon it . There ! No more hints ! Coming or not ? What more 's to say ? Well , nothing , except that Vertigo is performed in the manner expected of all performers in Hitchcock films . 	An unpredictable scary thriller that doubles as a mournful meditation on love , loss , and human comfort .
king of kong With the results up in the air until the very end of the film , you will care who wins the goofy contest . This may take place in the insular world of men who spend too much time in front of dimly-lit video screens , but that does not make this very un-Homeric struggle for glory any less engaging . Like all great documentaries , this one transcends its subject matter , so that in the end , it 's not just about two guys who play videogames , but about the nature of competition , how we cope with winning and losing and what that tells us about ourselves . The big laughs here come from the subjects ' self-absorption . A documentary that successfully takes it to the next level . A pretty great trip down memory lane , even if you were one of the cool kids who managed to avoid the arcade scene . Hollywood may find it difficult to cast two big-name stars willing to play it as broadly as the real-life hero and villain of this tale . Nor would many self-respecting scriptwriters dare to match the sheer improbability of these actual happenings . A sprightly new documentary that 's as compulsively watchable as the vintage video game it focuses on is addictive . A clever structure by director Seth Gordon means that The King of Kong ends up more engrossing than its bunch of geeky characters initially suggest . Unquestionably the most engaging and flat-out entertaining documentary since Murderball ... 	The King of Kong is funny and compelling with more than a few poignant insights into human behavior . Director Seth Gordon presents the dueling King Kong players in all their obsessive complexity and with perfectly al dente observations .
frankie and alice Revisits similar stories ( 'Sybil , ' 'Three Faces of Eve ' ) that have packed far more of an emotional punch . The problem with the kind of dedicated and vulnerable performance [ Halle Berry ] delivers here is that without the proper dramatic execution it just looks silly . Frankie & Alice feels like a film that might have been groundbreaking 40 years ago but has cable-TV movie of the week written all over it in 2014 . A hokey old-school drama of multiple personality disorder based , in the tradition of The Three Faces of Eve and Sybil , on a real case study . Less a revealing or dramatically involving case study , than an inmate taking over the asylum kind of vibe , as it lurches towards the end credits essentially way over the top . `` Frankie '' is a little thin despite its weighty subject matter , but it has some strong performances amid the predictable psychodrama . Halle Berry impresses in both the title roles of Frankie & Alice , a well crafted if slightly soapy seventies period piece about a young woman 's struggle with multiple personality disorder . A feature so eager for statues it practically provides a pen and a reading light to help with any potential award ballot situation that might arise after watching it . Other than the A-list actors and high production values , there 's little to nothing differentiating the film from any made-for-TV movie on Lifetime . Berry has proven she 's willing to take on enormous challenges , and she certainly exceeds her grasp here . Perhaps that 's why Frankie & Alice plays more like an elaborate acting workshop than a movie . 	Halle Berry gives it her all ( and then some ) , but Frankie & Alice is ultimately too narratively strained and clumsily assembled to do her performance justice .
land before time Baby dinosaur buddy flick that started the series . A very good animated film , but nothe where near intriguing enough to inspire copious sequels . The Land Before Time is as handsome and honest an animated feature as any produced since Walt Disney`s death ; it may even be the best . Do dinosaurs really lend themselves to ootsie-cutesiness ? If your little dinosaur lovers are still a bit young for Jurassic Park , then this charming cartoon should have them in raptures . Sharp animation and powerful visualisation of scale will enthrall a young audience but the clumsy cub-scout moralising feels , well , extinct . Maintains a genuine sense of beauty to it that will appeal to its young audience . I guess I sort of liked the film , although I wonder why it could n't have spent more time on natural history and the sense of discovery , and less time on tragedy . It 's a beautiful movie to watch , and the cartoony characters are as endearing as they come . It is full of the delightful merriment of childhood , albeit dinosaur childhood not Homo sapiens . For a sweet and simple little picture the whole family can gather round the tube and watch with delight , this one delivers the goods . 	Beautifully animated and genuinely endearing , The Land Before Time is sure to please dino-obsessed tykes , even if it 's a little too cutesy for older viewers .
chuck and buck It 's poignant , laugh-out-loud funny and thoroughly provocative . Chuck & Buck is a film which you ca n't quite get a fix on : it 's a movie about child sex which is also as airy and sweetly likeable as anything you 'll see this year . It 's an unusual film and , once you get past the creepy factor early on , an intelligently satisfying one . Director Miguel Arteta escapes the sophomore slump . Too real to ignore . Possibly the most daring and honest drama about sexuality I 've ever seen . Chuck & Buck is a beacon of intelligent oddity in another summer of sameness . The climactic confrontation between the two men near the film 's end ... simply does n't ring true . ... neither of the principals is a likable character and Buck 's inappropriate behaviors quickly become genuinely annoying ... Arteta 's movie takes a grand leap ... and clears the chasm with room to spare . 	Poignant , unsettling .
56 up 56 Up is still moving and philosophic , though not as exciting as earlier episodes , which had more drama . What started as a crafty way of looking at the U.K. 's rigid class structure has grown into a portrait of melancholy middle age , with its heartbreaks and minor-key triumphs . We 're now at 56 Up , , and with each passing calendar leap , the experience of watching has only become more soul-stirring . It 's like the startling time lapse photography of `` Chasing Ice '' had been applied to the human race . Apted possesses the unsettling ability to shape perceptions of their lives and personalities from inside an editing suite , a fact that the members of his flock begin to recognize at varying points throughout their adult years . Perhaps the boldest and probably longest running sociological experiment on film . Inevitably , one looks in the mirror afterward and thinks , What have I lost ? What have I gained ? And at what cost ? `` 56 Up '' is a rather bittersweet chapter , as age begins to further narrow those possibilities already defined at birth . And it hints that `` 63 Up , '' if we get there , may be sadder still . The most vital and moving sociological document of our times remains invigorating despite mostly maintaining the status quo because by now the `` characters '' , older , balder , and podgier , are like old friends . Quite simply one of the great documentary projects in the history of cinema , an engrossing sociological experiment on film ; and though this mostly mellow installment is n't as revelatory as some earlier ones , it 's still a remarkable document . 	Director Michael Apted continues to utilize cinema as a window into the lives of everyday people , and in the reflection of this documentary we can glimpse our own aging humanity .
night at the museum 2 How can one movie contain Ricky Gervais , Hank Azaria , Steve Coogan , Amy Adams , Christopher Guest , Bill Hader , Mindy Kaling , Jay Baruchel and Craig Robinson while offering so very little in the way of laughs ? Maybe the movie would be more fun if the ancient Egyptian tablet could bring Ben Stiller to life . This is designed to appeal to attention-deficit youngsters but will irritate or exhaust more discerning cinephiles . Fun , fast-paced sequel is more upbeat than the original . If you are n't enchanted and a little thrilled by the sequel 's setting -- well , you probably hate puppies and sunshine , too . This is yet another hard-sell `` family '' film that tries to bludgeon viewers into submission with loud and overly elaborate special effects set-pieces instead of charming them with a compelling story or any discernible traces of genuine wit and/or whimsy . The Lincoln Memorial statue is something of a travesty . A great adventure for all age groups . Watching historical figures enact the cliches identified with the most simplistic versions of their images , I found myself yet once again echoing the frequent cry of Gene Siskel : Why not just give us a documentary of the same actors having lunch ? This is a throwback to those disreputable 70s comedies that found a spot for every unemployed layabout in Hollywood . 	Night at the Museum : Battle at the Smithsonian is busy enough to keep the kids interested but the slapstick goes overboard and the special effects ( however well executed ) throw the production into mania .
black sea [ You ] could do far worse than this competently steered , claustrophobic adventure . But better fare exists in the subgenre catalog , and implausibility problems make this movie only partially compelling . I was afraid this would be a case of Robinson quickly succumbing to Ocean Madness and going kill-happy in the submarine 's unfriendly confines . You 'll be holding your breath right along with these treasure hunters as their hope for survival grows as black as the ocean depths . A semi-waterlogged confluence of the submarine and heist sub-genres which seeks to evoke a testosterone-soaked , 1970s feel . Twelve men in a leaky boat with greed for company and the Russian Navy above them . A shame that none of them are very likeable . While the film does n't cut nearly as deep as [ the director 's ] The Last King of Scotland , it 's nevertheless a suspenseful , taut thriller with political undertones that delivers on its low-key promises . A sturdy little adventure , even when it goes enjoyably off-kilter in its last half-hour . There 's more than a hint of The Treasure of the Sierra Madre about this Dennis Kelly-scripted thriller , which does a grippingly efficient job of trapping its audience amid the pumping pistons and clanging pipes of its inhospitable setting . It is n't the smartest or most exciting thriller that viewers will have seen but , thanks to a quality cast and a fresh setup , Black Sea is still an entertaining watch . Peanut butter and chocolate . Fish and chips . The heist movie and the submarine picture . These things go together so perfectly that it 's a wonder they were ever apart . 	Black Sea may not be particularly deep , but thanks to Kevin Macdonald 's judicious direction and a magnetic performance from Jude Law , it remains an efficiently well-crafted thriller .
get rich or die tryin I do n't feel totally satisfied with the emotional payoff , perhaps because it 's so hard to associate with the characters , despite the fine performances . Fans , of course will love it . The premise of Get Rich would be ridiculous if it were n't close to the truth and if the movie were n't refreshingly aware of its ridiculousness . Successful rappers usually make poor actors . Turns out Eminem is a better faux-gangsta than 50 Cent . Now run along and bust yo dope rhymes at a Bat Mitvah before heading back to your 18-bedroom mansion in Farmington , CT. You 're so street , Curtis . A preposterous rags-to-riches story with a flat lead character that it 's determined to raise to the level of a deity . A film with a rich and convincing texture , a drama with power and anger . [ A ] major disappointment from director Jim Sheridan , who ... seems to have lost track in his first foray away from Irish-themed films ... Sheridan comes up with more than his share of superbly directed scenes , but the whole thing is a mixed bag . 50 Cent digs deep . He just does n't get there enough to demand that we fully commit to this tale of a tight-lipped drug-dealer-turned-rapper . This movie may make a bunch of money , but it 's D.O.A . 	While it may be based upon 50 Cent 's own life experiences , Get Rich Or Die Tryin ' is too similar to many other rags-to-riches stories to resonate .
dirty wars 2013 A fearless and passionately directed documentary , Dirty Wars is a gripping and thought-provoking film fuelling the heated debate about the ethics of the US government and military . Scahill is right to focus on the price American security efforts have cost in human rights - and human life . Yet there are difficult questions hovering just outside the frame of Dirty Wars . [ C ] onnects how the celebrated successes and piecemeal scandals about the global war on terror fit into an alarming U.S. military policy . . [ but ] gets confusingly repetitive . For every shot of an Afghani citizen talking tearfully about the death of a loved one , there 's almost always an equally long shot of Jeremy Scahill listening , Jeremy Scahill taking notes , Jeremy Scahill furrowing his brow . This is a film you skip seeing at your own risk . Gritty and gripping , playing out like a paranoid geopolitical thriller ... Ultimately , Dirty Wars does n't feel like authentic reporting , it 's more of an audition reel . As a connect-the-dots narrative , `` Dirty Wars '' is eye-opening , a fierce argument that there are chilling ramifications to endless , vague aggression . It 'll open your eyes . Scahill 's voiceover has a grim relentlessness that ties everything together , while maintaining the pretense that the viewer is at his side as he makes his discoveries . 	Some viewers may find fault with director Rick Rowley 's filmmaking methods , but they are n't distracting enough to keep Dirty Wars from serving as a terribly compelling argument against elements of American foreign policy .
museum hours How to pick up women in a museum . There 's something trance-like about the flow of images here , as close-ups of details within illustrious paintings are juxtaposed with shots of faces and buildings in the streets of contemporary Vienna , alongside numerous fades to black . `` Museum Hours '' is every bit as masterfully conceived and executed as the art works that serve as the film 's lively cast of supporting characters . When Cohen 's film is over and the lights go out , the world is not the same anymore . A contemplative experimental drama , it also invites moviegoers to take a deep breath , to relax , and to float along in its leisurely exploration of leisurely exploration . As we learn how to look at the Kunsthistorisches ' masterpieces , we 're also learning how to watch this movie . ... And better : we 're learning how to look at our lives . ... a unique film that celebrates art , the city of Vienna and the profound friendship born of a kindness from a local to a visitor without many resources whose very trip is itself an act of great compassion . Relationships between humans and art are perceptively explored in this unassuming yet quietly charming character study . Amid all the looking and dissection , Cohen demonstrates an understanding of the individual need for increasingly elusive privacy that feels urgent , wistful , and quaint . Museum Hours is less interested in plot than in using its characters as a way to give ideas shape and voice ; however , because their performances are natural and improvisatory , the movie never seems didactic . 	Its languid pace may frustrate some viewers , but for patient filmgoers , Museum Hours offers a carefully observed portrait of the human condition .
alphaville A bracing salute to American gangster pics , with a jumpy European post-war uncertainty thrown in . Its melding of classic Hollywood archetypes and a terrifying future was ahead of its time when it was released . Five decades later , filmmakers are still trying to catch up . Science fiction meets film noir in a way that made possible the existence of Blade Runner , The Terminator and countless other books and films . If an iPod commercial had a nightmare , it would look like Alphaville Both derivative and prophetic , this New Wave dystopian fable both looks back at the history of cinema and forward to its future . Hail , Lemmy Caution , father of Rick Deckard . Karina proves to be the beating heart of the movie , getting its piercing last line ( no spoilers here ) . Yet it 's Constantine 's ravaged mug that you remember . It 's one of the great cinematic works of romanticism , as well as a sort of filmed revelation of the very essence of science-fiction movies and German silent classics -- their blend of social critique , emotional liberation , and paranoia . Packed to the brim with imagination , particularly the insane 2nd half . It works both as a philosophical treatise on politics and film as well as an entertaining and often amusing look at a future overrun by technology . The self-conscious didacticism of 'Alphaville ' sinks its ship . 	While Alphaville is by no means a conventional sci-fi film , Jean-Luc Godard creates a witty , noir-ish future all his own .
while you were sleeping This setup is ludicrous , but actually it 's the most credible thing in this whole sorry , dishonest film . Recaptures the true spirit of the best kind of modern fairy tale . Interesting twist on the romantic triangle . The film 's casual warmth may make you tolerate some of the shortcomings -- especially since Bullock seems to be having such a fine time with her first starring role . The heart of the film 's charm is Sandra Bullock . Turteltaub wisely plays his strength by giving us extended close-ups of Bullock , who is at once canny and vulnerable , rising above this workmanlike comedy . Classic Sandra Bullock romantic comedy . If it has no great virtues , at least it has no great faults either . This appealing romantic comedy catapulted the ever-likeable sandra Bullock into major stardom The movie seems better suited to a holiday release . While You Were Sleeping arrives at the peak of spring , the only season that can make Christmas seem like an unwelcome visitor . 	While You Were Sleeping is built wholly from familiar ingredients , but assembled with such skill -- and with such a charming performance from Sandra Bullock -- that it gives formula a good name .
dior and i Simons is intriguing , but the warmth and charm of the seamstresses carry the film . This exceptional [ cross cutting ] structure allows the past to continue informing the present , reaching a climax after lights out in the ateliers , Tcheng projecting old Dior imagery over the white toiles that are the blueprints of Simons ' first collection . The heart of Dior and I is with these seamstresses and cutters , artists in their own right . This undramatic and flat peek `` inside '' the sewing rooms of Christian Dior holds little in the way of entertainment . Tcheng finds Simons in moments of haughty self-confidence and tremulous self-doubt . Of special interest to a limited audience , this backstage look at fashion design at the house of Christian Dior will tell you what you always wanted to know about the most elite segment of the rag trade . this Mission : Impossible aspect ... provides ... a sense of palpable tension , and which might make it palatable for viewers who give not a whit for haute couture . The most interesting element about the documentary Dior and I ... is the insight we get into the process and the skilled artists in the atelier that elevates this above the standard fashion hagiography . One does come away with a grudging admiration for the toil and ingenuity of the many players who bring it all together . As Tcheng gets his cameras into the day-to-day operations of the Dior atelier , the movie becomes a portrait of the process - the hierarchies and traditions that turn ideas into wearable art . 	Dior and I will obviously appeal to fashion fans , but this beautifully tailored documentary may draw in even the least sartorially inclined .
jodorowskys dune a true triumph Pavich 's fun documentary captures an unbowed , exuberant Jodorowsky , who recalls his team of `` spiritual warriors '' with the camaraderie of a battle-scarred veteran . This is a film that is largely about Jodorowsky himself ... but also about the way sci-fi movies have grown , changed , and mutated over the years . The documentary suggests the collaborations and creative ferment Jodorowsky fostered leave a legacy that lasts to this day . This documentary version of Jodorowsky 's `` Dune '' is probably more entertaining than what Hollywood would have done to it , with a clearer message : Our lives are like sands though an hourglass , so dream the impossible dream . The message to take from Jodorowsky 's Dune : movies once had brains and balls , and lost them . We may never know if the midnight movie maestro 's `` Dune '' would have been a game-changer or a head-scratcher . ( Or both . ) But the documentary about it is speculative catnip for cineastes of all stripes . [ The documentary ] has , in Alejandro Jodorowsky himself , an amazing , one-of-a-kind storyteller , whose enthusiasm for the film he did n't get to make is electrifying and magnetic . `` distinguishes itself by finding true inspiration in the shattered fragments of what was left . '' `` Jodorowsky 's Dune '' is a lovely little tribute to a major league `` What if ? '' 	Part thoughtful tribute , part bittersweet reminder of a missed opportunity , Jodorowsky 's Dune offers a fascinating look at a lost sci-fi legend .
beauty and the beast 1991 Simply one of the best films ever made , animated or otherwise . Just like The Little Mermaid a couple of years ago , it blends child-pleasing characters and plot twists with jokes and musical styles that clearly have older spectators in mind . Splendidly crafted as it is , the new Disney is a luscious impasto of visual invention that never quite finds its heart . The apex of an art form , a justly celebrated classic , and the best animated movie of any sort ever put on screen at any time . The artistry of the animators , who combined traditional painting with computer-generated images , stands up to the best that the Disney empire ever produced . Some of the film 's ideas , which are both campy and subtle , may not be kids ' stuff , but like all good movies , Disney 's enchanting fairy tale operates on many different levels and thus can be enjoyed by viewers of all ages . The set pieces are narcotically pleasing , especially the Busby Berkeley-style dancing-kitchenware spectacular , `` Be Our Guest , '' and the romantic ballroom centerpiece that brings Beauty and her Beast together . Does the IMAX version work ? For the most part , it does . Some youthful memories are better not revisited , but this definitely is n't one of them . Sometimes you can go home again . Ten years later , it 's still flawed and still quite fascinating . 	Enchanting , sweepingly romantic , and featuring plenty of wonderful musical numbers , Beauty and the Beast is one of Disney 's most elegant animated offerings .
pokemon-the-first-movie-mewtwo-vs-mew With intentionally stilted animation , uninspired music and lame jokes , Pokemon is basically an ultralong version of the phenomenon 's own boring TV 'toon . In the tradition of such drivel as 'The Care Bears Movie ' and 'Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles , ' it 's essentially a commercial disguised as a feature film . Heart is something sadly lacking in Pokemon : The First Movie . Even some children will eventually grow restless with the flat , unimaginative drawings and bland light-rock soundtrack There is n't a moment of wonder or poetry in its very long 69 minutes . Not only does Pokemon -- the First Movie threaten to strike again with the sequel-readiness of its title , but the overlong 89-minute opus aims to thrill tykes by being slightly less than adorable -- meaning you should n't trust these creatures any f The values of POKEMON 's protagonist have tapped into the unconscious of a generation that compulsively watches the show and codifies its critters without really knowing why Unfortunately , dear grown-ups , no end to the Pokmon invasion seems imminent . Violent and dark -- and even a bit disturbing , especially for what 's supposed to be a G-rated film . Kids will come away with the moral of the story : Trust your heart . Adults will just be happy to come away . 	Audiences other than children will find very little to entertain them .
eden lake It 's a claustrophobic marvel , and an impressive debut by Watkins . A solid horror thriller worthy of a watch , if only for its insight in to how easily the hive mentality can be formed , and how merciless it can be . ... while Eden Lake is effective , something feels not quite right about cheering for prepubescent kids to get their fatal comeuppance . Works exceedingly well , and will probably stick in your gut for a little while . It is impossible not to admire the way Watkins ratchets up the tension in his debut as director ( he wrote My Little Eye ) and keeps his tale strictly to 90 minutes . A well acted , smartly directed horror flick that 's gory , disturbing , terrifying and topical . A gruelling , grimly effective British chiller . Eden Lake : pursuit , persecution , violent death . It is not often that The Sneak feels like walking out of a movie . But this exploitative , patronising and nauseatingly violent take on Britain 's yob culture had your critic eyeing up the exit . So harsh , bleak and intense it achieves a level of raw power . A sordid little nightmare of contemporary England . 	A brutal and effective British hoodie-horror that , despite the clichs , stays on the right side of scary .
ponyo Ponyo is a visually arresting work by an anime master , and both cute enough and suspenseful enough to keep pre-schoolers in their seats . Ponyo is a delight , so long as you accept it for what it is ... an empowering , completely upbeat wonder-tale . When Miyazaki makes films that decry the threat to the natural world , every molecule onscreen resonates with that belief -- a belief that dissolves the boundaries between form and content . With a starry , first-rate voice cast and the shortened name , this Disney-fied version remains a magnificent animation wonder and a pure delight . Even when the film feels murky , Miyazaki 's painterly eye keeps things afloat Hayao Miyazaki proves that he is not only a master animator but also a master storyteller . Ponyo is easily one of the best films -- animated or live action -- of the year . Though far from Studio Ghibli 's best film , Ponyo is still a magical experience . The sight of the giddy and newly bipedal Ponyo racing atop the waves of a magically roiling flood may be the happiest and most memorable image of the movie year . Should n't an anime ' auteur of Hayao Miyazaki 's stature avoid a story about a sea creature interacting with a human child ? Is n't that `` Finding Nemo ? '' lacks any real sense of conflict or danger . It makes up for it . . . with a delightfully absurd internal logic that is perfectly keyed into the way small children see the world 	While not Miyazaki 's best film , Ponyo is a visually stunning fairy tale that 's a sweetly poetic treat for children of all ages .
the beaver 2010 Despite its ambitious tonal sweep , The Beaver ends up feeling like pieces of a lot of different films , making it a movie that 's more interesting than it is great . Gibson knows a thing or two about lost , troubled souls , and watching him navigate around the edge of the abyss is fascinating . Mel Gibson looks like hell in The Beaver . That 's a compliment . When Meredith claims they used to be happy , and he responds that it 's all a lie , we do n't really know who to believe . And that vagueness makes it unclear who we 're supposed to trust and what outcome will actually be a good thing for the characters . Admittedly , Gibson is very good as the deeply disturbed hero - particularly as he sits alone slugging vodka or mourning the loss of his family 's love . But is this really acting ? Is it even a performance ? The movie 's glumness is in synch with Foster 's performances over the last decade : It 's as if she 's decided that acting is something you mature beyond . Which I suspect had a dampening effect on Gibson 's performance . `` The Beaver '' is almost successful , despite the premise of its screenplay , which I was simply unable to accept . The film is amusing , then melancholy , then weirdly funny , then not . It 's a quiet , measured work . The puppet works . Gibson is powerful , touching in Foster 's finely shaped , offbeat drama as a profoundly sad man trying to save himself . The haunting fictional portrait lingers beyond the film . 	Jodie Foster 's visual instincts and Mel Gibson 's all-in performance sell this earnest , straightforward movie .
1046227-cool runnings In the tradition of Mighty Ducks , here 's another great Rocky story from Disney . The offbeat , fact-based saga is enlivened by the perfect balance of humor , emotion and insight and should be one of the true sleepers among fall box office releases . Better than it looks . I know , it shocked me too . One of Candy 's best as coach of an Olympic bobsled team . The setting and characters were so unique that the film quickly overcame its shortcomings to become a very satisfying piece of movie entertainment . Entertaining and uplifting . If you like underdog movies , you might like this one . Especially if you have n't seen very many . A wholesome , engaging , frequently hilarious , ultimately inspirational film . A energia do elenco e a inspiradora premissa ( baseada em fatos reais ) convencem o espectador a ignorar os vrios clichs e a torcer desesperadamente pelos bravos jamaicanos . The considerable warmth , humour and persistence of the cast soon have you rooting for these underdogs . 	Cool Runnings rises above its formulaic sports-movie themes with charming performances , light humor , and uplifting tone .
war witch It is astonishing that film that contains such violence can have such a serene tone . The source of the serenity is the measured , calm narration by Komona ( voice of Diane Umawahoro ) that is the telling of her story to her unborn child ... rich in anthropological specificity , Nguyen 's film is unexpectedly sensitive and anchored by some amazing performances . Nguyen reportedly worked on `` War Witch '' for a decade , and it shows in both the immediacy and authenticity of his tale , and the meticulous craft with which it 's told . The movie is committed to revealing the world through Komona 's eyes , and you never feel a taint of voyeurism or condescension . It stays true to her . It 's depressing stuff , to be sure , but it does a marvelous job at giving us an impressionistic taste of horrific circumstances without using them to beat us into submission . ... an intriguing and frequently disturbing drama that tells an important story in an impressively even-handed way ... Being a child soldier is tough to imagine , but Canadian writer-director Kim Nguyen takes on the challenge without many qualms . Infused with Terrence Malick spices , War Witch aims for ambiance as a way to approach its searing images of war , keeping the viewer unnerved instead of outraged when inspecting the troubles of Africa . Nguyen , astonishingly , manages to wring something vaguely like a happy ending from this tragic story . 21st Century Africa presented as a godforsaken wasteland conjuring up primitive images reminiscent of the ghoulish dystopia chronicled by Conrad in Heart of Darkness . 	War Witch is a mature , intense drama that embraces the bruatlity of its subject and invites the audience to sympathize with its protagonist 's nightmarish circumstances .
1162559-bobby Whatever Bobby lacks in nuance , texture and depth it makes up for in idealism , passion and nostalgia for the era . While the movie is about one of our great national tragedies , it is not without hope . As we experience Kennedy 's compassion and eloquence in newsreel footage and hear the campaign speech he delivered that night , we comprehend the film 's overwhelming sense of loss . A stew So , yet again , Hollywood 's elite has produced a political tract that plays fast and loose with history from an empty-headed , politically correct perspective . Bobby shows how some people 's problems become small and insignificant in the face of momentous events . But in so doing , the movie reveals itself to be small and insignificant , too . So keenly felt and so deeply imagined I could n't help but be moved , even grateful for its bleeding-heart nostalgia -- which winds up feeling rather up-to-date . The archival Kennedy clips aside , the excited radiance of these young characters ' faces ( and many of them are just extras ) may be the best thing about Bobby . What I resent most about Bobby is that it 's so obvious that it has no ability to be meaningful . It 's like making a movie about how the ocean is wet . Who does n't know that ? If Bobby causes us to stop and compare what might have been to the leadership we currently have , one suspects Estevez would not mind at all . 	Despite best intentions from director Emilio Estevez and his ensemble cast , they succumb to a script filled with pointless subplots and awkward moments working too hard to parallel contemporary times .
1108624-road home In the spirit of the best nostalgic village pics , only one thing happens , and yet it turns out to mean everything to its characters . Makes a mighty strong case that the old ways are the best . The Road Home yields its pleasures slowly , opening in wintry black and white before ripening into a miracle . Well-made tripe . A touching little pleasure . The story is about as uncomplicated as it can get , and the visuals and the performance of Zhang Ziyi are there for the audience to simply soak-in . Its compositional sophistication , its lighting on par with the Dutch Masters ' , its oneness with natural landscapes and its luxuriant appreciation of the leading lady -- makes Road Home a must-see . An interesting , if slightly unbalanced , hybrid . Has deep rewards for those who surrender to its lulling rhythm . A nicely realized love story . Zhang Ziyi , who is considered to be the movies new queen of kung-fu shows that she can do more than just kick *** here . 	Beautifully filmed , The Road Home is a simple touching and tender love story .
bolt I 'm never a big fan of animal films and I admit it 's because , though I am by no means a crier , pets losing their friends or getting lost gets me all choked up . Frankly , it 's embarrassing . But if you can make me sniffle , you 've won me over . Bolt ... sniff What Bolt lacks in originality it makes up for in execution . It 's a lovely , often hilarious piece of work . ( Bolt is ) slick , sophisticated , incredibly well scripted , and sprinkled with enough ani-magic fairy dust to keep both the adults and the wee ones totally sated . Bolt is n't a dazzler , but it 's entertainment with heart . Wait ... an all-star voice cast for a computer-animated story we 've never heard of before , and it 's watchable , too ? Disney 's strongest CG animated effort to date can be credited to the strength of a premise that mixes what 's worked so well in earlier Disney animated films with a better awareness of what makes a movie entertaining both for kids and adults . It 's not a 'gourmet ' banquet on the order of Ratatouille or the first Shrek , but this peppy picture is certainly more than a cinematic 'snack , ' and for its 96-minute running time will not bore kids , the parents or other adults joining them . With the holiday season officially underway , `` Bolt '' is the perfect present for the whole family . Bolt certainly moves along at a lively clip that will satisfy both kids and adults , but the script ( from Williams and Dan Fogelman ) is a little too Hollywood-insider . 	Bolt is a pleasant animated comedy that overcomes the story 's familiarity with strong visuals and likable characters .
scarface ... Brian De Palma 's criminally over-the-top remake of the 1932 Howard Hawks gangster classic By ignoring its massive , toxic , nuclear-fallout shortcomings , it finds its way to the hallowed status of camp classic . One fundamentally dishonest character choice launched a billion-dollar industry . But it hardly sours a film that became a garishly ghoulish , bleakly funny and compulsively watchable template for modern-criminal deconstructions of the American Dream . ... much , much longer than it generally needs to be ... This almost Jacobean tale of drug gangsters in 1980s Miami is rather too long for the points it makes , but is nevertheless riveting and still , after 26 years , remarkably fresh . Painted in exuberant , extravagant swaths of red , Brian De Palma 's foolhardy epic is a thing of delirious grandeur I like it as a kind of B-movie version of The Godfather . There are a lot of classic lines and a handful of memorably horrific scenes ... What 's left to say ? Ultra-violent ; Pacino is manic and all ham ; a pale shade of the original . De Palma 's film is now back on the big screen and looking better than ever . 	Director Brian De Palma and star Al Pacino take it to the limit in this stylized , ultra-violent and eminently quotable gangster epic that walks a thin white line between moral drama and celebratory excess .
1193906-ghosts of girlfriends past A second-rate sex farce ... mostly clunky and vaguely unsavory . Only two characters might qualify as sympathetic . There are many ways you can deal with the hypocrisies and faults of the male libido ; Fellini spent a career exploring this terrain ( think 8 1/2 , City of Women ) but there is nothing interesting on the subject here . Despite being foolish in most respects , Ghosts of Girlfriends Past keeps you on its wacky rom-com narrative train all the way to the end . But that 's probably a testament to the power of Charles Dickens ' storytelling more than anything else . Quirky supporting characters enliven this by-the-numbers romcom . In the worst performance of his career , McConaughey plays Connor as so insufferable that Jenny would obviously be much better off with somebody else . Anybody else . Even Russell Brand . This is the cinematic blending of two familiar formulas : the 'love , lose and then love again ' framework of most romantic comedies with the idea of transforming ghosts from the classic A Christmas Carol . A slick , standard Hollywood studio produced romantic comedy that utilizes a clever conceit and some expert supporting comedic performances to help it squeak by . Ideally , you want to see the male and female leads end up together in a romantic comedy ; if not , it all starts to become kind of creepy . McConaughey 's self-satisfied and oleaginous performance scrapes away the trace amounts of charm the film has to offer . 	A retread of A Christmas Carol , featuring Matthew McConaughey in a retread of his Dazed and Confused role , Ghosts of Girlfriends Past lacks originality , humor , and any semblance of charm .
national treasure It 's easy to underestimate the value of a popcorn movie that works as well as this , especially if you have n't seen many recent failed attempts . Though I 'd never call the film a treasure , if you do n't take it too seriously , it 's on a par with most Bruckheimer actioners . None of this should work , but in the best Bruckheimer tradition , it does . Unfortunately , it lacks the conviction to embrace its own garish awfulness , resulting in little more than tedious historical and patriotic hokum ... This would be fun if director Jon Turteltaub did n't move things along at a snail 's pace . As vanilla a filmmaker as they make 'em , Turteltaub 's filmography does n't exactly inspire the greatest confidence that he can handle a monster-budgeted action/adventure . Somewhere between the emulsion and the nitrate of this film there 's a map to the Bruckheimer fortune . It is harmless fun , but it could have been done a lot better . The film is far from perfect , but what do you expect from the director of 3 Ninjas . This is a bravura film that genuinely understands the nature of true family entertainment and provides it in spades . 	National Treasure is no treasure , but it 's a fun ride for those who can forgive its highly improbable plot .
10009823-sin nombre That this is Fukunaga 's first film is astonishing , given its sharp script , technical proficiency and suspenseful pacing . The ensemble cast is top-notch . Sin Nombre is a spry , humane account of the hardships encountered on the Mexican immigration trail , whose violence never feels exploitative , for all that it may be hard to watch . Highly recommended . Sin Nombre marks an impressive feature-film debut for Cary Joji Fukunaga , albeit more as a director than a writer . [ F ] or all its raw simplicity , the film manages to conjure a veritable library of references . Fukunaga does show a certain flair for filmmaking style that suggests that he will one day direct a great movie -- unfortunately , despite what you may have heard , this film is n't it . The thrilling and beautifully crafted debut feature of 31-year-old Californian Cary Joji Fukunaga . Sin Nombre is at once subtle and intense , familiar but refreshing , intimate even as it tells a story untold numbers have endured . The best film I 've seen this year . The combination of professional actors and locals is effective and adds to the unique telling of this immigrant story . It 's a tribute to the visceral impact of the staging that the film retains its grip despite becoming somewhat predictable , while thematically it 's the usual cycle-of-violence hand wringing . 	Part harrowing immigration tale , part gangster story , this debut by writer/director Cary Fukunaga is sensitive , insightful and deeply authentic .
collateral It 's a solid servicable thriller , one that works throughout watching it but not one that stands particularly out from the bunch ... A suspense thriller with little real suspense and few thrills . Vincent 's ferocity ( designated by Cruise 's grim-face mode ) is the film 's most distracting clich . A compulsively watchable movie that takes what could have been a standard-issue thriller and makes it feel thrillingly alive ... This intensely focused piece soars not only on the director 's precision-tooled style but also on the outstanding interplay between leads Tom Cruise and Jamie Foxx . Awesome vision and a compellingly villainous Tom Cruise save this cool contemporary noir from its lukewarm patches . Arguably the first film Mann has made that marries the painstaking style of Heat and Manhunter with the gripping substance of The Insider . [ Jamie Foxx is ] the reason to see Collateral , as he walks into the frame and walks off with the picture . Someone 's been playing a little too much Hitman on their PlayStation 2 . Flawed but captivating . 	Driven by director Michael Mann 's trademark visuals and a lean , villainous performance from Tom Cruise , Collateral is a stylish and compelling noir thriller .
primer An unapologetically cerebral movie of ideas . It 's a tiny-budget indie film with an interesting sci-fi story premise . Too bad the mystery overwhelms the humanity , so it does n't quite work . In steady , assured hands and a well-thought-out script , time travel can make for sizzling tension and paradoxes that present mind-wringing puzzles . It takes a lot for a movie to surprise today 's jaded , seen-it , bought-the- PlayStation-version sci-fi fan . Primer can . Let it . Shane Carruth 's Primer is a science fiction movie like no other , pushing its experimental tendencies as far as they can go without betraying the genre It 's different , that 's all , and it 's good because it 's different . Packs more ideas than a hundred big-budget studio films made for a thousand times more money . Every frame of the way , it 's eminently clear that Primer is the work of an engineer , not a film- maker . What 's impressive -- aside from the fact that Carruth got the thing made in the first place -- is that the movie 's tone skates right between coherence and an appreciation for endless , even infinite possibilities . May very well be one of the best American movies of the year , and I 'll be damned if I understood more than 40 percent of it . 	Dense , obtuse , but stimulating , Primer is a film for viewers ready for a cerebral challenge .
mother of george 2013 Working from a script by playwright Darci Picoult , Dosunmu fashions a tale that 's realistic , melodramatic and culturally specific , yet unmistakably archetypal . This is one of the most striking entries in the 2013 global wave of black cinema , but also admittedly one that poses hurdles to audiences with conventional expectations . Has the advantage of novelty and authenticity , but Dosunmu 's ellipitical and self-consciously tasteful approach robs the material of some of its power ... The joy is in the detail of Dosunmu 's film , the nuance of a relationship as richly complex as the African print dresses that Adenike favours . Director Andrew Dosunmu 's film is big-hearted and rich , frequently using slow motion to underscore an artful intimacy . Mother of George is a seemingly straightforward film with some complex underlayers . Why do we want what we want ? Oddly , the gradual pacing , with scenes that stress the pace of chill human interaction over narrative thrust , helps make the third act more powerful : The genuine catastrophe that results is made even more intense by the shagginess that preceded it . Human beings are mysterious and surprising . There is something irresistible about a movie that reaches that conclusion . Simply relating the narrative of Andrew Dosunmu 's seductive immigrant drama Mother of George would do little to convey the film 's stark , poetic power , much less its extraordinary visual and sonic acumen . When so many scenes are freighted with portent , one moment does n't feel any more significant than the last ... nothing the characters do is ever surprising ; one expected revelation and argument follows the other . 	Director Andrew Dosunmu 's style takes some getting used to , but Mother of George compensates with powerful acting , a thoughtful script , and gorgeous visuals .
1068779-dead man walking An extremely affecting experience Penn gives an astonishing performance and delivers exactly what Dead Man Walking needs . This makes you think harder about crime and punishment than , say , The Green Mile , delivering uneasy truths rather than comforting melodrama . Crime and punishment are depicted in cruelly unflinching detail in Tim Robbins ' deadly earnest , intermittently powerful death-row drama . To say that the movie is neither for nor against capital punishment is disingenuous . Still , this is a fine and painful effort overall . Has the distinction of including not one , but two of the greatest screen performances of all time ... undeniably one of the most gut-churning emotional experiences of 1990s cinema ... [ Blu-ray ] Robbins , who also wrote the script , is no Truman Capote , let alone a Victor Hugo , and his film trips up constantly on indecisiveness about what it is he 's trying to say . A profoundly affecting film that will touch you deeply and perhaps even prompt you to re-examine your notions about the issues at hand . Dead Man Walking could easily be manipulative or exploitative , but it 's neither . Instead , this is hard-hitting drama that neither accepts nor offers quarter . One of the deepest human films in a long time , one that does n't back down from baring the human soul and exploring the vastness of its complexities . 	A powerful , thought-provoking film that covers different angles of its topic without resorting to preaching , Dead Man Walking will cause the viewer to reflect regardless of their political viewpoint .
ghost in the shell O visual e a qualidade da animao so incrveis , e a histria bastante criativa . Ghost In The Shell is an ultra-violent , rocket-paced film-over and out in just over 80 minutes-but it 's a poetic one , too . I enjoyed its visuals , its evocative soundtrack ( including a suite for percussion and heavy breathing ) , and its ideas . This is exactly the kind of film that James Cameron would make if they ever let him through the Disney front gates . Staggeringly cool anime adventure . This is a work of profound and melancholic beauty ; every bit as essential in the 21st century as it was in the 20th . Thoughtful sci-fi anime Its animation is so rich in meticulous and sumptuous detail that it blows previous Japanese landmarks like Akira simply out of the water . For sheer mind-expanding sci-fi strangeness this is hard to beat I confess I find it too opaque to make the kind of investment that would qualify me as a real fan . But it should be seen . 	A stunning feat of modern animation , Ghost in the Shell offers a thoughtful , complex treat for anime fans , as well as a perfect introduction for viewers new to the genre .
live die repeat edge of tomorrow Writer Christopher McQuarrie handles the concept with aplomb , and he knows that the real interest here is what effect this kind of life would have on human relationships . The whole thing should go down quite nicely with popcorn . It wo n't change the course of Cruise 's career , but at least it mixes up the formula . `` Groundhog D-Day '' ? `` A Million Ways to Die ... in the Future '' ? It 's fun for a while , but `` Edge of Tomorrow '' is what the GIs used to call a blivet -- 10 pounds of movie in a five-pound bag . A surprising and unforgettable adrenaline rush and is so far the summer 's best action film . As for Mr. Cruise and Ms. Blunt , they hold their own in parts that really could have been cast with anyone with a SAG card . Just when everybody was ready to count Tom Cruise 's career out for the count , not only is he back , but back again and back again and back again , ad infinitum ! Liman has a gift for off-center authenticity -- even amid the orchestrated chaos of a major studio FX picture . Tom Cruise is the last movie star , fortunately , he 's in Edge of Tomorrow , making it better despite itself . A sharp sci-fi thriller that 's going to be hard to beat as the summer 's best blockbuster . 	Gripping , well-acted , funny , and clever , Edge of Tomorrow offers entertaining proof that Tom Cruise is still more than capable of shouldering the weight of a blockbuster action thriller .
dreamers The seductively charismatic duo of Green and Garrel , who make the siblings ' twisted relationship warm yet disturbing , off-putting yet inviting . Bertolucci and Adair have made a beguiling tribute to the glorious indeterminacy of youth . Marks a long-overdue return to the important themes of human connection and social commitment that run through many of Bertolucci 's most memorable films . Up until its final moments , 'The Dreamers ' is all too aptly titled . ... two hours of lusciously photographed lollygagging ... ... these characters just are n't as fascinating as Bertolucci clearly believes them to be ... Exhilarating . It ends up a mess . Perhaps [ Bertolucci ] was ambivalent about his feelings for the time . Perhaps he was just sloppy . Watching The Dreamers is like receiving a present where the box is nicer than the contents . Maybe the worst thing Bertolucci has done is make a good film that is too blithe to distance itself from the offensively precious one it constantly threatens to be . 	Though lushly atmospheric , The Dreamers does n't engage or provoke as much as it should .
revolution will not be televised Rough-hewn , improvisatory and contentedly lo-fi , the resulting documentary should prove warmly encouraging to embattled progressives of all stripes , and incidentally offers the best political date-movie of the week . An eye-opener that focuses on world-shaking events and makes you feel like you are there . this riveting piece of work should encourage viewers to continue to investigate the subject on their own after leaving the theater It is remarkable because the filmmakers , Kim Bartley and Donnacha O'Briain , had access to virtually everything that happened within the palace during the entire episode . A rough-edged work of journalism that is as gripping as a thriller . What resonates in the end are the forces behind it , what it says about its time , and how , in fact , it ever happened at all . An extraordinary inside look at politics at its most urgent , volatile and bare-knuckled . Instructive not only for students of South American ( and oil ) politics but also for anyone who questions the importance of the media in determining who gets power and how long they keep it . A gripping if necessarily disjointed documentary that plays like a real-life version of a Costa-Gavras thriller . It gives us a sense of Venezuela 's political and social climate in April 2002 , and in that regard it is most fascinating . 	The Revolution Will Not Be Televised is as persuasive and engrossing as it is unapologetically biased .
al franken god spoke A fascinating combination of class clown and fact-happy debate-club president , Franken nonetheless makes for a compelling subject , but God Spoke veers uncomfortably into hagiography , especially as it winds down . As a record of the Al Franken you already know and love , Hegedus and Doob 's rather slapdash movie is fun . Existing in the moment without inquiry or challenge , cinma vrit fosters exactly the sort of refusal to think beyond the immediate that this film criticizes in right-wing dittoheads . The film only sporadically succeeds in providing biographical information or thematic depth , but Franken is such a witty and thoughtful presence that these flaws do n't matter greatly . The documentary skims the surface , appreciating Franken 's crass , troublemaking modus operandi . This would be OK if the doc were crammed with hilarious footage , but Franken comes off as more droll and bitter than clever . A documentary about the comedian and satirist who sees himself as a leftward leaning crusader for Truth and Justice in an era of Lying Liars . The scope ought to be narrowed , but the film is still pretty entertaining in places , owing to Franken 's intelligence and quick wit . cheated of some much-needed integrity ... there is enough funny stuff transpiring that even some non-fans will be entertained . Offers a portrait of this complex man that is -- dare we say it ? -- fair and balanced . 	This documentary traces Franken 's transformation from humorist to activist with entertaining , if uneven , results .
1062483-bad boys Le rsultat final se veut certes vide , prvisible et terriblement artificiel . Mais bon , il s'est dj fait bien pire , et surtout moins amusant . Ultra-stylish buddy-cop comedy benefits from a few strong chuckles and lots of high-end mayhem . Of course , the Simpson-Bruckheimer approach may still work at the box office ( the only place it ever really mattered , anyway ) . By now , though , I 'd like to think most moviegoers have had a permanent overdose . A frantically slick and thoroughly enjoyable extravaganza . ... just another typically erratic endeavor from Bay . Unfortunately , the movie is a couple of rewrites short of 'developed ' , and the thriller configurations are stale . The entire film is filled with headache-inducing closeups , chaotic camera moves and quick edits . Bad Boys is relentless formulaic fodder for the explosion-starved ; it 's loud , shallow , sexist and a complete waste of time . Bad Boys takes the often-traveled road , and leads the audience to a dead end . Even when it 's not particularly funny , their interplay is engaging , and their lively , raucous personalities keep the proceedings punchy and watchable for the slightly overlong running time . 	Bad Boys stars Will Smith and Martin Lawrence have enjoyable chemistry ; unfortunately , director Michael Bay too often drowns it out with set pieces and explosions in place of an actual story .
machete Machete occupies the space of last year 's violent comedy , Tropic Thunder , although not as funny . A macho picture with a hero who is assailed by every conceivable hurdle and impending death many times , to give audiences a high octane , stunt-driven action thriller which takes no prisoners It may be thin but it 's fun and for some that will be enough . Starts out strong but things get a little wonky toward the finale . Sadly , the film is far too married to the faux trailer footage . It is hard to call this a good film . But it is tough not to have a good time ( your taste and politics allowing ) . The lack of subtlety and discipline is what can make Machete a disreputable pleasure and less than a full success . Machete do n't text , but he will hack your limbs off . `` Warped , violent , dark , funny , sexy . Great stuff . '' Social commentary , you ask ? Quite how can a film centrally preoccupied with Danny Trejo stabbing and shooting people and having sex with lots of women have any sort of pretension to political currency ? Disreputable without being outright sleazy . 	Machete is messy , violent , shallow , and tasteless -- and that 's precisely the point of one of the summer 's most cartoonishly enjoyable films .
incendies Incendies is a tough film but a sensitive one . The storytelling in Incendies strikes me as primal the way Greek tragedy is primal . Shattering . Cathartic . It is a breathtaking film . As a film of ideas , it 's disappointing , but as a two-hour ride it 's definitely worth your time . A kind name for this attitude is false moral equivalence , or perhaps post-imperial cringe . A less kind one is Western self-hatred , or an urgent plea to tolerate the intolerant . [ T ] ragic human coincidences . . . strain credulity [ d ] espite exemplary acting , cinematography , insightful scope and contemporary relevance . . .but is a powerful teaching tool . Incendies acquires its heft from some very deep places -- Greek tragedy rather than newsflashes . Incendies remains fundamentally didactic , particularly in its stunning final revelations . Normally I 'm against decent original stories being dumbed down and squashed into bog-standard thriller shapes . But Incendies is in dire need of some dumbing down . Villeneuve 's telling of her story - and of her children 's - is painful , searing and something close to brilliant . Incendies moves back and forth between the 1980s and the present , and every scene is unexpected , from the forced recruitment of child soldiers accompanied by a mournful Radiohead song to a startling revelation at a Montreal swimming pool . 	It 's messy , overlong , and a touch melodramatic , but those flaws pale before Incendies ' impressive acting and devastating emotional impact .
le cercle rouge A seminal heist movie . Holds its own with other movies of its type . I ca n't say that Cercle Rouge is an overlooked masterpiece , but it 's an amazing antidote to the current style of filmmaking in which silence and causal relationships are routinely disregarded . A minor classic , mainly for reasons besides its crime story plot -- namely , the urbane fatalism of its cast and the overall mood of inevitability that hangs over every scene . Watching the movie , one is afraid to make the slightest sound for fear of betraying the stealthy criminals onscreen . The epitome of neo-noir stylishness . There are unforgettable tableaux of movement , meticulously executed with wordless cool . Melville views it all at a distance and with a slow kind of precision that is missing from modern movies . There 's no flash here , just criminal behavior observed with an eye for detail . The director 's penultimate work . The antidote to every square tough-guy caper you 've ever seen , and the inspiration for many great ones . 	Melville is at the top of his game , giving us his next-to-last entry into the world of deception , crime , and extreme suspense that made him a maestro of the French heist genre .
daddys little girls The hamfistedness of Daddy 's Little Girls ultimately shatters its charms . Daddy 's Little Girls is the kind of movie where you look the other way as regards to minor offences , so devoted is it to making a positive statement . Yes , it 's true that Tyler Perry 's movies are mostly formualaic . Yes , it 's true that Tyler Perry is n't the finest director in the world . But it 's also true that Tyler Perry is getting better . I entered this moviegoing experience ready for a lot of wincing and eye-rolling . But dammit if this movie did n't make me laugh and cry . Daddy 's Little Girls is [ Perry 's ] best-looking film to date . Is it asking too much for a script to match ? Cottage-industry independent filmmaker Tyler Perry fumbles with this family drama about Monty ( Idris Elba ) , a salt-of-the-earth car mechanic and father of three girls trying to win a custody battle with his lowlife ex-wife . Tyler Perry likes preaching to the choir . Suffice to say that everybody in this totally TV-tempered , finger-waggingly reactionary movie learns a valuable lesson in getting back to basics . Perry has great casting instincts , and in Elba and Union he 's matched two gifted , equally gorgeous actors , both of whom seem ready to make sparks fly . If only their director would let them . Implausible ? Yes . Predictable ? Yes . Entertaining ? You bet . 	Daddy 's Little Girls boasts fine performances and a poignant message , but is ultimately let down by amateurish filmmaking .
osama Works simply as the story of one unlucky young girl . Focuses more on the relentless hardships and suffering than on the characters experiencing them . Heartbreaking stuff . Filmado apenas em locaes , provoca um impacto ainda maior ao mostrar um pas destrudo pela guerra - evocando , neste sentido , o inesquecvel Alemanha , Ano Zero . An unforgettable harrowing examination of the lives of the Afghan people . What you see is n't surprising , but living through it -- experiencing the cruel and arbitrary justice of the Taliban through a 12-year-old 's eyes -- puts a knot in your stomach that lasts beyond the film 's closing credits . Osama is an exposing , opinionated , frighteningly frank and fascinating film . It 's also an actual Afghani film , so It 's amazing it even got made . I wanted to scream at Osama : Look , your life is at stake , stop crying and climb the tree like a boy ! Wonderful film , and what a remarkable achievement . Will touch everyone with its haunting sounds and images . 	Osama is bitterly honest , deeply disturbing , and utterly worth watching .
gim me the loot 2012 Tashiana Washington and Ty Hickson are terrific in the main roles . So is Zo Lescaze as Ginnie , a spoiled white kid who teaches the taggers a thing or two about drift and being dissolute . When the next American new wave rolls around , it 'll be thanks to moments like these , and movies like Gim me the Loot . Is n't cinema wonderful ? Some of the movie does n't exactly convince , and some of the scenes have an actors-improv feel to them , but there 's always plenty of humour and energy . Every bit as charming and joyful as it is profane , affectionately portraying a slice of life that feels both exotic and recognizable . Led by his two charismatic young lead actors , Adam Leon 's Gim me the Loot is an almost compulsively endearing film about two tough-talking teenagers in the Bronx . There 's barely enough narrative to sustain even an 81-minute picture , yet a sweet spirit buoys this quick-witted , amiably foul-mouthed indie . Like the graffiti art it documents , it 's a lovingly handmade affair . First-time feature director Adam Leon 's shots are precise and full of detail . `` Gim me the Loot '' should n't be as appealing and exuberant as it is , it really should n't . 	Thanks to energetic performances from its young leads , Gim me The Loot captures a slice of city life with warmth and exuberance .
martian child the fairly predictable cornball fluff we anticipate when off-center loners find a middle ground . John Cusack , Coleman and the rest of the talented crew on screen reach moments of authenticity that are thrilling . Though it panders shamelessly , it 's not entirely unwelcome in a time when the PG movie is an endangered species . [ DVD review included . ] if you like these emotionally-brittle family dramas , you 'll eat this film up . But for a confirmed cynic like myself , it was torture to sit through the movie 100 percent goo . A comedy masterwork that touches the heart with its portrait of the survival tactics of an abandoned orphan and the loving ministrations of a widowed science fiction writer who adopts him . The things Martian Child gets right are strong enough to save this apparent glucose-spiker . Directed by Spielberg protege Menno Meyjes , Martian Child is contrived , but it works . The film feels lazily conventional . There are truths to be had here , but much of the film still rings false . Martian Child feels artificially sweetened rather than genuinely moving . 	Despite some charms , overt emotional manipulation and an inconsistent tone prevents Martian Child from being the heartfelt dramedy it aspires to be .
the tribe 2015 Overlong and not always successful in its storytelling , Slaboshpitsky consistently returns to sex and violence to shore up a weak plot about a guy who falls for the wrong girl . The Tribe is just as brutal in its depiction of casual depravity as it is in its bursts of extreme violence . If you can make it past the final five minutes without wincing , more power to you . The film 's second half descends into increasingly explicit and shocking displays of violence , and , in fact , all of The Tribe is defined by either overheated emotions or extreme actions . Miroslav Slaboshpitsky 's study of teenage tribalism and the brutal adherence to a gangland-style hierarchy is a grimy , gripping , unrelenting vision . Compelling , upsetting , brutal and brilliant , The Tribe is one of the best works of cinema of the year - a familiar template recreated in what , for most , will be an entirely new world . It 's hard , in some ways , to take . Yet , it is also so inventive and so unbendingly determined that it will be equally hard to erase from the mind . The absence of music and spoken dialogue enriches expressiveness rather than denuding it , so that what appeared to be a deficit is repositioned as a gain : not a bad philosophy to arrive at for a film presenting disability to a largely able-bodied world . Pretty much every single thing about The Tribe is impressive . A uniquely riveting experience sure to inspire an array of reactions-speechlessness included . This uncompromising rites-of-passage allegory is a sign of the times . 	A bleak , haunting drama whose wordless dialogue speaks volumes , The Tribe is a bold , innovative take on silent films for a contemporary audience .
spiderwick chronicles It 's fast-paced and funny , strangely warm and suddenly creepy , disarmingly charming and admirably icky , all at the same time . The movie , based on the best-selling series by Tony DiTerlizzi and Holly Black , tells parallel tales of fathers who abandon their children , but it glosses over the trauma of those sagas in favor of special-effects-laden escapism . Book-based family fantasy is magical and fun . Best of all , Waters and his team remember to make the movie about human beings ; like E.T. , this is a story about dealing with absent fathers that happens to be filled with adventure and outlandish critters . ... a lively children 's adventure ... Condensing five short juvenile novels into a single 90-minute film , the screenwriters have done a decent job of constructing a tale that will entertain tots without insulting parents ' intelligence . ... imaginative fun , derivative , to be sure , but amusing and entertaining and just a little bit scary by turns , at least for kids . `` The Spiderwick Chronicles '' is a modest and reasonably charming example of a genre that is n't exactly renowned for modesty or charm . The story , frankly , is dull . It 's essentially a siege tale , watered down for youngsters and interrupted by side trips . A late entry in a crowded field , Spiderwick works hard to set itself apart from the competition , and almost entirely succeeds - no mean feat these days . 	The Spiderwick Chronicles is an entertaining children 's adventure , with heart and imagination to spare .
national treasure book of secrets Just like the original , it 's too caught up in its mythological zeal and furious pacing to do much for our `` Indiana '' jones . A capably filmed diversion that 's breathlessly wired for whiplash but instantly forgettable . Ultimately , Book of Secretsis an embarrassingly by-the-numbers rehash of the first National Treasure , lighter on the swirly , emotion-cuing music but still well-trafficked in ridiculous feats and worse dialogue . Even sillier and less entertaining than the first film in this series . Solve the P vs. NP Problem or figure out the plot of Book of Secrets . If you desperately need to escape the house this holiday season , avoid this treasure and see something else . With just as many locales , historical landmarks and secret codes as the original , Book of Secrets is just as much implausible fun . nothing more than a series of ADD driven vignettes held together by the flimsiest of plots , helmed by the dude who made 3 Ninjas . There 's sounder logic and more genuine sleuthing in a 'Scooby Doo ' cartoon . Tepid and predictable though the action largely is , Bartha provides intermittent comic relief and Mirren is her usual droll self . National Treasure : Book of Secrets is a pretty typical blockbuster sequel , focused intently on appeasing what it thinks the audience wants , and missing out on what it takes to make a truly good movie . 	A talented cast goes to waste in the improbable National Treasure : Book of Secrets , which is eerily similar to the first film .
ali Smith 's towering performance can only be fully appreciated on a suitably large screen . Despite it 's faults , it 's definitely worth a looksee . Aside from a lack of story and meandering direction , the thing I liked least about Ali was the guerrilla-style cinematography . Smith inhabits Ali -- his power , grace , ego , humor and body language , inside and outside the ring -- as well as any actor could . Loaded with bravura filmmaking flourishes , and exceptional performances . Plays more like a celebration than an examination , emphasizing hagiography over history . It 's great art cinema masquerading as a mainstream film . ... ultimately more admirable than enjoyable No matter how good Smith and the other actors are , they seem at times dwarfed by the movie itself . Like the fighter himself , Ali dazzles with its technique -- this is a big , impressively mounted movie , packed with meticulous , you-are-there details . 	Though perhaps no film could fully do justice to the fascinating life and personality of Muhammad Ali , Mann 's direction and Smith 's performance combine to pack a solid punch .
paddington 2014 King is obviously a true fan and he 's made a true and wonderful Paddington movie ... The themes and concerns of Michael Bond 's original series of books and television shows are all there , and the personalities are too . A respectable screen version of Michael Bond 's classic children 's books . `` Please look after this bear '' , says the tag around Paddington 's neck . Rest assured , they have . What 's so magical about this setup is the perfectly British attitude : No one is fazed by Paddington 's ability to speak , stand on two legs and discuss the moral consequences of one 's actions . Paddington is a marvellous ( and politically brave ) piece of cinema that never puts a paw wrong . `` Paddington '' is as pleasant and comforting as tea and a biscuit , and it takes place in a contemporary fairy-tale version of London , which glows warmly and wraps Paddington in its multicultural arms . He 's a bear you care about from the first candy-colored frames of the film , which teems with delightful images in a seamless mlange of live action and computer animation . `` Paddington '' stuffed with charm . It 's difficult not to go into a movie like this with a sense of dread , as the beloved children 's book becomes a live-action movie with a digitally animated , eerily realistic-looking bear . `` Paddington '' is , ultimately , about how a newcomer can become part of a family , and about how good manners and marmalade can get you out of any tricky situation - delightful messages , at any age . 	Paddington brings a beloved children 's character into the 21st century without sacrificing his essential charm , delivering a family-friendly adventure as irresistibly cuddly as its star .
heathers A super-smart black comedy about high school politics and teenage suicide that showcases a host of promising young talents . A scathing lambasting of the American teen in the late 1980s , but its presence will be timeless . Heathers locates the emotional totalitarianism lurking in a prom queen 's heart . May be the nastiest , cruelest fun you can have without actually having to study law or gird leather products . A wonderful savage satire on high school life . Lehmann 's audacious feature debute transforms teen suicide into a wild and mean satire with a giddy tone . Good year for indies : The movie premiered at Sundance in 1989 , along with sex , lies and videotape , thus heralding Gen-X Cinema . fantastic Two decades later , Heathers is so on the money , with its vague but unmistakable parallels to several school shootings , that it could never be made today . This film is dark as night but great fun , taking teen issues by the scruff of the neck and holding them up as the rather unpleasant exhibits they are . A super-smart black comedy about high school politics and teenage suicide that showcases a host of promising young talents . 	Dark , cynical , and subversive , Heathers gently applies a chainsaw to the conventions of the high school movie -- changing the game for teen comedies to follow .
gnomeo-and-juliet For all the clever writing buried in the Gnomeo & Juliet script , the end result is a bit disappointing . But I could n't hate it . Seriously , have most small children here even seen a garden gnome ? Outside of a website commercial , maybe , or the cover of Grandpa 's old `` All Things Must Pass '' album ? Wait for the next Elton John-themed lawn gnome Shakespeare adaptation . The greatest film ever made about living , breathing garden gnomes . Tolerable but forgettable , Gnomeo & Juliet is a halfway clever idea executed with minimal effort and ingenuity . It continuously reaches for the lowest-hanging fruit -- in its jokes , in its animation style and its brazen , narrow appeal to tykes . Creative , much less tragic take on classic love story . It 's a little bit funny . Not much more than a bit , but enough to make this a cheerful , likable children 's picture with a big heart . ... this primary-colored parable about feuding lawn-ornament clans is easy on the eyes and good for some laffs . Ducking tragedy , [ it ] still dives into some surprisingly dark waters . What is there to say about a movie that beats its eccentric premise to the ground in the first scene , and does n't stop ? Uneven is the course , as the Bard might say , but the ride is plenty of fun . 	While it has moments of inspiration , Gnomeo and Juliet is often too self-referential for its own good .
the little death 2014 There are moments of bad taste black comic brilliance in this feature debut . Sad and often laugh-out-loud funny . For all of the comic potential of a broad and bawdy farce , Lawson 's story does n't meet its own brief and , much like the lousy sex had on screen , it ends up being a frustrating letdown of uneven pacing and mismatched mood . It 's perched uneasily on a fence separating a rote comic sketch film from something weirder , stranger , and less engaged with offering reassuring domestic homilies . In the end , the film does n't work . Darkly funny , occasionally poignant and teeming with the unexpected . Overcooked at times and not always cohesive , Josh Lawson 's debut feature about intimacy is a case of hit or miss , but in its favour , there are some very funny ideas coupled with some priceless moments A brightly performed , amusing and provocative entertainment that might have you rethinking what constitutes a normal sex life . The Little Death is just a mostly laughless tour of unlikeable , depressive suburbanites . There is simultaneously too much and not enough going on in writer/director/co-star Josh Lawson 's feature debut . 	The Little Death may appeal to fans of dark , risqu comedy , but it 's ultimately too rough and uneven to hang together as a wholly satisfying viewing experience .
saddest music in the world Guy Maddin 's snow globe cinema , hermetically sealed in ghostly adoration of silent cinema , is well matched to this darkly comic fable . Discerning filmgoers searching for a truly original voice , need look no farther . Beckons with a seductive and unforgettable melody . The style is so overdone it 's nearly suffocating . ... so stuffed with Maddin-ess that it never manages to get past the glorious surfaces . This feature from the antiquarian avant-gardist Guy Maddin is a sublime , hallucinatory musical , full of surprising humor and genuine sorrow . Maddin has reached a new expressive plateau . ... shrill and annoying ... Virtually gushes with an overflow of ideas and images and razzle-dazzle A giddy celebration of despair in all its wretched glory . 	Guy Maddin perfectly recreates the look and feel of a 1930s in this bizarre picture .
beautiful mind It is a thought provoking study of mental illness and the struggle to overcome it . The best action film of the year . [ Crowe 's performance is ] still one of the better roles you 'll see all year and seems a shoo-in for a Hanks-like third nomination in a row . A grand Hollywood drama . This is blatant histrionic mugging directed squarely at Oscar voters . Oscar-winning biopic is too intense for tweens . This film is a puzzlement in its inconsistency , especially coming from Ron Howard ... Still , good performances abound . The result is one of the most successful attempts to make math look sexy , even if the movie strays - gallops , really - from the details of the actual life of Nobel Prize-winner John Forbes Nash Jr . It makes you understand what it feels like to have a serious breakdown in powerful , empathetic ways that no movie has ever done before . Fascinating , clever and surprisingly heartfelt , A Beautiful Mind is easily one of this year 's best films . 	The well-acted A Beautiful Mind is both a moving love story and a revealing look at mental illness .
flashdance Nothing but glossy fluff . Punchy , cleverly stylized , but utterly empty . Crudely-made in just about every possible way , Flashdance has only nostalgia going for it . One of the shallowest things you ever will see . This spirited rock musical about a young factory worker go-go dancer in Pittsburgh who aspires to be a ballerina is the best kind of adolescent fantasy : colorful , involving and full of leaping , prancing energy . A simplistic fairy tale , directed by Lyne in a trashy , superficially glitzy style , with pretense to realism in its on-location shooting and a woman who works as a welder , and the kind of postmodernism that 's mostly evident in the heroine 's name , Alex . Virtually plotless , exceedingly thin on characterization and sociologically laughable , pic at least lives up to its title by offering an anthology of extraordinarily flashy dance numbers . Jennifer Beals should n't feel bad . She is a natural talent , she is fresh and engaging here , and only needs to find an agent with a natural talent for turning down scripts . Flashdance might be considered one of the first signs of Hollywood 's Apocalypse . Unlike its grittily romantic predecessors , Flashdance is pure glitz . 	All style and very little substance , Flashdance boasts eye-catching dance sequences -- and benefits from an appealing performance from Jennifer Beals -- but its narrative is flat-footed .
omega man Unsatisfying sci-fi thriller , though it 's not Charlton Heston 's fault a historic relic most significant for being part of the Heston sci-fi genre and its landmark place in interracial sexual relationships . A breezy film about the death of mankind in a way that only the '70s could have provided . ... not an awful film , just a remarkably dull one . So-so last man on earth flick that looks pretty quaint today . At times astonishingly awful . Despite being baked in early '70s cheese , The Omega Man is easily the most entertaining film version of Richard Matheson 's sci-fi novel , I Am Legend Despite not having aged particularly well , the opening sections of this sci-fi allegory remain potent , although the rest of its apocalyptic storyline is decidedly leaden . Averagely competent exercise in comic strip sci-fi . Not bad , but far from a classic . 	It may not live up to its classic source material , but The Omega Man transcends its limitations often enough to offer some mildly entertaining post-apocalyptic thrills .
an education `` An Education '' is worth seeing , mostly for its superb period detail and the strong performance at its center . An unusually nuanced and mature depiction of one of those hoary movie fantasies : the older man who gets the much , much younger woman . As a fan of the great kitchen-sink dramas and British coming-of-age films of the 1960s , I loved this throwback to that glorious time in British filmmaking . Sarsgaard has that certain look and style that always hints at something not quite right lurking beneath his noble exterior . An adult focus upon a questionable pairing sidesteps the raincoat crowd and offers a telling , reflective study of learning the hard way . A handsomely crafted and beautifully acted awakening story that 's predictable but consistently rewarding . No movie I 've seen in a very long time has touched me so deeply , or bestowed so much pleasure . The film 's a gem - and [ Carey Mulligan 's ] performance is an education in itself . A great , thoroughly enjoyable film , and one which I`m sure will get some Oscar attention towards the end of the year . A fun production with a great soundtrack and scrumptious English scenery but the decisions are ultimately too dim to believe . 	Though the latter part of the film may not appeal to all , An Education is a charming coming-of-age tale powered by the strength of relative newcomer Carey Mulligan 's standout performance .
a man named pearl Topiary folk artist and chainsaw-wielding 'plant whisperer ' Pearl Fryar seems like a wonderful man , but the directors never justify the feature-length treatment they give to a story that easily would have fit into a Sunday morning Charles Kuralt segment . As a portrait of genteel small-town life , it 's not half-bad , so hellbent on being inspirational that it dodges thornier issues , but so pleasant and well-organized that it 's hard to mind . A Man Named Pearl not only makes you want to get out there and play Edward Scissorhands but can , at least for its 78 jazz-and-gospel infused minutes , help replenish one 's faith in humanity . Pic looks very much like a protracted man-of-the-week spot on a local newscast . Assembled without frills or fuss , A Man Named Pearl is as much a portrait of a small Southern town as of an unassuming black folk artist . A decidedly limited , functional aesthetic affair . Conflict and controversy are the breeding ground for story , and A Man Named Pearl -- for all its beauty and inspiration -- is sorely lacking in these elements . This documentary is a head-over-heels tribute to Pearl Fryer , a man who is extraordinary -- and not just 'cause his name is Pearl ! This would have worked better as a short documentary . Totally uplifting film about a factory worker who became America 's most respected topiary artist . 	Though it lacks moviemaking polish , A Man Named Pearl is redeemed by the interest -- and uplift -- generated by its subject .
1174278-definitely maybe Sweet , charming ... and not particularly funny for even a moment . If Brooks ' attempts to replicate the magic of About a Boy were n't obvious by the end credits , the Badly Drawn Boy song will drive the point home . While clearly aimed at women , many men could find it as entertainingly endurable as did I . A mildly entertaining rom-com with obvious flaws , with nowhere near the out-of-the-candy-box approach to romance it purports to have . Very improbable , kinda corny and sweet as hell ... a next generation When Harry Met Sally . Definitely , Maybe is what happens when someone decides to make a romantic comedy , then sits down and thinks about it for a while before setting out to write . To sum up , Definitely , Maybe is crap with compensations . Tthe performances are very strong . The big news here is the intelligence , the balance , the real romance in Definitely , Maybe . No , it does n't follow the formula . And really , how cool is that ? Reynolds has consistently ranked among the top unsung comedic actors of his era . 	With a clever script and charismatic leads , Definitely , Maybe is a refreshing entry into the romantic comedy genre .
cashback How ironic that Richard Lester had to go all the way to England to make that chef-d'oeuvre of sex comedies , The Knack ... and How to Get It , while Ellis stays home and churns out the British answer to American Pie . [ Director ] Ellis has rounded up all the actors for this feature adaptation but does n't add much to the 18-minute original besides a tedious boy-meets-girl . Cashback aspires to be equal parts Volkswagen ad and Nicholson Baker 's The Fermata , yet compares unfavorably to both . Guaranteed to be a hit with onanistic adolescent boys blinded by raging hormones . I think this filmmaker has a future . A flair for language both cinematic and verbal elevates an ordinary coming-of-age comedy of little substance . ... heralds the arrival of a fiercely original cinematic presence . Beware films with protagonists depicted as vastly more sensitive than their fellow characters . The result may be a crock like Cashback . Ellis seems to believe that artists have an enlightened sense of beauty and greater access to it than common folk . And he may be right : He 's clearly mastered the skill of convincing art-school chicks to take their clothes off . Considering the entire uneventful and unpleasant proceedings , 'cash back ' may have been the worst highly suggestive choice of title possible for the audience to contemplate . 	An unlikable protagonist , messy editing , and gratuitous nudity might make audiences ask for their cash back .
buried Rodrigo Cortes keeps the action bound to the box , limiting his lighting to naturalistic approximations , so that much of Reynolds 's performance consists of him grunting and heaving in the dark . Not recommended for claustrophobics . It 's more or less a smothering experience . This is an extremely well crafted film that will keep you on the edge of your seat right up to the very last shot . This film 's opening alone is more terrifying than the entirety of most horror movies . A brilliantly twisted suspense thriller that would have made Alfred Hitchcock proud . Go in prepared for a clever cinematic experiment , ignore the little flaws , and be rewarded . It 's too long , it loses all sense of direction at the 60 minute mark , and so much of the action is phone-based that after a while it starts to feel like an audiobook . An experiment in limitation that , at least until the movie 's deflating final payoff , manages to tap into our deepest anxieties . Make no mistake , you can make a movie about one character inside a box interesting for 94 minutes . Bravura filmmaking , certainly , Buried borrows techniques from great inventive filmmakers ( director Rodrigo Corts cites Hitchcock , Scorsese and Spielberg in his notes ) but applies them to a claustrophobic horror story that drags us into a place of terror 	Wringing a seemingly impossible amount of gripping drama out of its claustrophobic premise , Buried is a nerve-wracking showcase for Ryan Reynolds ' talent .
cant hardly wait This is the kind of pointless teen schlock one sees on USA Up All Night . The directors get good performances from a talented cast . A mostly funny , sometimes sentimentally nostalgic look at the last days of the greatest days of most of our lives . A high-spirited , synthetically raucous house-party comedy . A failed attempt to recapture the exuberant magic of such highschool movie classics as American Graffiti , this is a loud and boisterous comedy , in which the entire action is set during an interminably long graduation night . Surprisingly well-realized teen party film . The movie lumbers ungracefully from romantic showdowns to Deep Conversations to bathroom humor . Beyond broad stereotypes and patently obvious social observations , Ca n't Hardly Wait has very little to offer . Fortunately , some of the appealing young performers -- who include Ethan Embry , Charlie Korsmo , Lauren Ambrose and , especially , Seth Green -- manage to emerge from the film 's generic suburban-teen backdrop . Essentially a John Hughes piece on speed . 	Occasionally clever and moderately intelligent , Ca n't Hardly Wait also contains too many cheap laughs , recycled plotting , and flat characters .
1217700-kick ass America could probably use a good laugh just about now , what with all the problems plaguing this society . But the exploitation of children even if they are actors and the special effects are occasionally awesome , is way beyond just not cool . The film is post-modern surgery into the superhero myth , driving a scalpel into the warped logic of misanthropic killers who masquerade as civic do-gooders . Prepare for amazement : This thing makes Nicolas Cage cool again . You 'll laugh , you 'll cry , you 'll squeal in delight at the outrageous behaviour of a little girl in a purple cape . But most of all , you 'll wish that all superhero movies were like this . It will soon be a well-known part of the comic book movie pantheon . A ridiculously entertaining , perfectly paced , ultra-violent cinematic rush that kicks the places other movies struggle to reach . The picture 's saving grace is Hit-Girl , an exuberant cinematic original destined to become iconic . Without her , as the saying goes , the makers would have nothing . A bizarre and ultimately self-sabotaging movie that defies categorization , Kick-Ass is at times cheap and cynical , while in other moments is ingenious and strangely noble . On the page and on the screen , Kick-Ass riffs on the wish-fulfillment afforded by tales of derring-do and the ill-advisedness of taking on the task in real life . Kick-Ass is a rabid puppy of a movie , energetically bounding off the screen and into your lap , where it proceeds to chew off your face . 	Not for the faint of heart , Kick-Ass takes the comic adaptation genre to new levels of visual style , bloody violence , and gleeful profanity .
beware of mr baker Jay Bulger 's seemingly erratic doc formally channels Ginger Baker 's almost defiant refusal to lead a life that adheres to a linear narrative . The takeaway : great musician , deficient family man , taxing friend and bandmate , excellent documentary subject . Exceptional . Jay Bulger 's warts-and-all documentary about one of the world 's most enigmatic drummers is as vibrant as its musically prodigious subject . `` Beware of Mr. Baker '' is comprehensive , if somewhat overly glowing . Wild , funny and richly textured audio-visual treat of a film ... Appealing to some for the same reasons other foul-mouthed , curmudgeonly subjects make for entertaining docs `` Beware of Mr. Baker '' argues that when an artist consistently delivers amazement , broken beaks and busted relationships are a fair price to pay . This is warts and all , with the emphasis on the warts . The madman of rock drumming has n't mellowed . Or croaked . That 's two miracles attached to Ginger Baker 's name . It 's a broadly forgiving portrait of an impossible , irascible talent , who seems to have treated life much like his instrument . This intense , imaginative and wild little film celebrates an unrepentant madman , one of rock'n'roll 's surprise survivors , drummer Ginger Baker . 	Free of the hagiographic overtones that dog many documentary profiles , Beware of Mr. Baker presents a clear-eyed , thoroughly gripping look at one of rock 's greatest -- and most personally problematic -- musicians .
urban legend Obviamente , 'lgica ' uma palavra que o roteirista Silvio Horta dispensou neste trabalho . Attractively shot , and well-paced , but remains pretty standard fare . A low-voltage drive-in movie , made strictly by the book . Watchable ... [ but ] a time-waster , with an insulting ending that unfortunately takes it down a few pegs . [ Blu-Ray ] The concept is sound , but it 's gruesomely marred in the execution . A proud product of the Scream cookie-cutter ! This lurid trifle is actually fun on a trashy level ! Those of us with brain cells , however , will spit out this Scream retread like it was spider-egg-laced bubble gum . Takes a promising premise and runs it through a predictable meat grinder of idiocy . Fun if you like this kind of thing ! 	Elements of Scream reappear in a vastly inferior vehicle .
faculty A decidedly average film with flashes of inspiration . All the students were stereotypes . Another smart and pop-culturally hip film from Williamson . Since the codes of science fiction are different from horror 's cant , the patented Williamson method does n't make a perfect fit with the material ; Faculty 's fun , but less fun than it could be . Just whiskers away from being really snazzy , `` The Faculty '' still manages to make for a fun night out . What could have been an interesting update of Body Snatchers for the teen crowd becomes a very bland Robert A. Heinlein 's The Breakfast Club . Will there a bigger , better blast of pure , unpretentious , popcorn entertainment this holiday season ? Not bloody likely . A zesty , charming sci-fi horror-thriller with better performances and far better production values than you 'd expect . If you have the feeling you 've been here before , you have . Surely is n't perfect , but it 's a solid genre offering from Robert Rodriguez . 	Rip-off of other sci-fi thrillers .
kicking and screaming There are some funny moments , mostly with the kids , but a lot of this comedy falls as flat as a deflated soccer ball . A Will Ferrell cinematic playground . Sit back and enjoy . Director Jesse Dylan , desperate to avoid yawns , flails madly with staging , editing , slow motion -- any trick he can think of , whether it fits or works or not . Kicking & Screaming may be the official end to the Will Ferrell Rolling Thunder of Funny Tour . relies too much on Farrell 's shtick and the `` ooohh , cute kids '' factor , so it does n't even try in the script department . Insert sports cliche here . Insert sight gag there . Both Duvall and Mike Ditka , who plays himself and helps coach Phil 's team , spend too much of the movie on the bench , and while they 're there , the jokes run thin . ... a formulaic Bad News Bears rip-off that at least features some good-natured charm to compensate for its flat script and cartoonish tendencies . As always , Will Ferrell earns laughs through his total commitment to the material . An immensely likable , funny comedy that finds a novel approach to that familiar combo of kids and sports . Will Ferrell has become the most unlikely embodiment of wholesome family fun since Fred MacMurray gave up film noir for My Three Sons . 	The script is mediocre and fails to give Ferrell a proper comedic showcase .
fantasia 2000 Another Disney classic for the vaults . My only complaint is that it was over too soon . Perfect family entertainment . Fails to live up to more than its 60-year-old predecessor 's two-hour running time . A worthy successor to the original concept , allowing the next generation of animation talent to cut loose . [ Blu-ray ] The Sorcerer 's Apprentice 's spell still works . A labor of love . Go in with low expectations . A rapturous , transporting experience the likes of which we do n't see in the multiplex often enough . One of the most impressive marriages of music and animation since the original film . 	It provides an entertaining experience for adults and children alike .
soul plane Surprisingly enough ( in fact , I am shocked ) , this film gets a lot of laughs . So broad and relentlessly raunchy that it makes a spoof like Airplane seem as demure as a vintage drawing-room comedy . Long before landing , the movie 's tireless minstrel-show mentality sends it into a nosedive . Soul Plane is like seeing an uncomfortably unfunny stand-up comedy routine acted out and stretched to a feature-length film . I laughed my lily-white *** off ! Soul Plane is hilarious . It 's a funked-out Airplane - that silly stoo-pid fun movie not trying to prove anything to anyone . It 's okay , but far from a joy ride . Soul Plane is a great premise searching for a better script . Soul Plane recycles its few jokes again and again and yet again , running out of fuel long before touchdown . This nearly plotless movie follows the maiden voyage of NWA ( a moniker that seems to be the extent of the film 's wit ) through a torrent of stale ghetto jokes in the vein exhausted years ago by the Wayans brothers . Is Soul Plane an instant classic ? Nope . Does it go too far at times ? Absolutely . But is it a damn funny movie ? Fo ' shizzle , my nizzle . 	A raunchy sendup of Airplane ! that never really takes off .
paradise now This taut , ingeniously calculated thriller fixates on the flashpoint where psychology and politics ignite in self-destructive martyrdom . For a while as perversely compelling as Spielberg 's Munich , the film sadly deflates as a narrative . Ainda que assuma claramente a defesa da causa palestina , o cineasta deixa clara sua reprovao ao terrorismo . Whatever Abu-Assad 's motives were for making Paradise Now , his film is n't about politics . It 's about two men . ... it says more about Middle Eastern politics from the Palestinian side than any movie , period . Despite the obvious opportunities to turn this subject into a strident polemic , it follows an entirely different route -- one that in the end carries considerably more impact . I felt that I was no closer to understanding the psychology of suicide bombers than I had been before . With a documentarian 's eye and a dramatist 's urgency , Abu-Assad sneaks into the mind of a suicide bomber , and also his heart . [ A ] sensitive , occasionally didactic film . There 's much to provoke thought about the motivations of these self-destructive terrorists . 	This film delves deeply into the minds of suicide bombers , and the result is unsettling .
lake of fire A provocatively beautiful movie on the hottest hot-button issue in American life : a woman 's right to an abortion . Lake of Fire does n't tell you what to decide , it just gives you as much information as possible to make the choice yourself . Lake of Fire does something with the volatile subject of abortion that neutral observers and even political partisans can appreciate : It offers a wide representation of perspectives and opinions . [ A ] passionate meditation on the fiery issue . The film shows shocking footage of actual abortions in progress and the remains of aborted fetuses , as well as the appalling images of murdered abortion clinicians and the horrifying testimonies of pro-life fanatics who are convinced all abortionists shou Demands we throw out our preconceived notions and face the issue without walls to protect us . As the U.S. elections media coverage becomes incessant , it 's worth keeping in mind that actual listening to other `` sides '' can be enlightening . A monumental achievement , 17 years in the making and financed by Kaye himself , Lake of Fire reveals Kaye to be a far more thoughtful and mature filmmaker than his loose cannon public persona suggests . This sprawling , scary , nearly unbearable film [ is ] more important than ever . [ The ] film does nothing to advance the debate but does a great deal to show us what 's at stake . 	Lake of Fire 's engaging interviews and powerful black-and-white visuals make for a riveting and honest documentary about a very controversial topic .
10005499-oliver twist It 's mannered at times , as you might expect ... but the surprising thing about Oliver Twist is how deeply it resonates . A near-masterpiece . Seeing Polanski 's version of this most Dickensian of all Charles Dickens ' tales , I felt full and wanted no more versions ( please , sir ! ) , having now seen the definitive one . Hopefully , this loving adaptation will allow a new generation to discover this masterpiece . It is a film where art direction triumphs but genuine art remains elusive . Polanski has given the Dickens saga a thrilling epic look . A severely overlooked , exceedingly well-done version of an oft-told tale ... One of the best films of 2005 . With tact and enthusiasm , Roman Polanski grabs hold of a great book and rediscovers its true and enduring vitality . Engaging , handsomely photographed and beautifully acted , Polanski 's Oliver Twist , adapted by Pianist screenwriter Ronald Harwood , distinguishes itself from most versions in its decidedly dark tone . Oliver Twist is a lovely , tony picture , but it is n't exactly essential . 	Polanski 's version of Dickens ' classic wo n't have audiences asking for more because while polished and directed with skill , the movie 's a very impersonal experience .
rise of the planet of the apes Something a caged chimp might fling at zoo visitors . Rise wears Planet 's mask to use 2001s conceit . In this sense , Franco-stein begets a monster worthy of our consideration and viewing pleasure . Only in a world where James Franco portrays Will Rodman , a brilliant biochemist working for a pharmaceutical company , can apes get the best of mankind . Caesar then gets bigger and crankier . He must choose , as a final career option , between maximum-security retirement or world-changing multi-ape mayhem atop the Golden Gate Bridge . Take a guess . Show me some ape stuff that 's new and surprising . Rise of the Planet of the Apes makes for an impressive , if predictably downbeat prequel to a franchise famous for unhappy endings . The reboot attacks Pierre Boulle 's concept with straightforward flair , taking it to its logical conclusion - or , in this case , origin . A smart , contemplative movie bound neither by the conventions of the science fiction genre or action/adventure tropes . Take the `` rise '' in the title `` Rise of the Planet of the Apes '' to heart . As in , rising action . Despite thin human drama , and one note supporting characters , Rise of the Planet of the Apes is a surprisingly sincere story that elevates the franchise canon . It 's faint praise to say that this is the best of the `` Planet of the Apes '' movies , because the evolution of special effects and makeup was predictable . But the unexpected strength of the film is its heart . Contrary to all previous live-action `` Apes '' movies , this one forgoes humans in makeup for full-on CGI animals , and the results are surprisingly solid . 	Led by Rupert Wyatt 's stylish direction , some impressive special effects , and a mesmerizing performance by Andy Serkis , Rise of the Planet of the Apes breathes unlikely new life into a long-running franchise .
finding vivian maier A sleekly assembled and intriguing project , if clearly a very commercial proposition . An extraordinary examination of a remarkable photographer , part portrait unraveled by meticulous detective work , part sharp criticism of the hidebound art establishment . The movie illustrates that baffling conundrum of the difference between great works of art and an artist with a seriously flawed character . Directors John Maloof and Charlie Siskel do a lot with what they have -- but they also had a lot to work with . The movie 's true power comes from her images , by turns melancholy , sympathetic , funny and sharp . Nothing , and no one , makes a better case for the unveiling of Maier 's work than her pictures themselves . There are no easy answers here which is what makes 'Finding Vivian Maier ' such a compelling film . This must-see but ultimately problematic film offers a portrait of a truly rare figure : a modern master who escapes obscurity by chance , while also being guilty of mythmaking . A fascinating story which continues to raise more questions than it answers . Whether or not you can justify viewing Maier 's work without her consent , it 's pretty clearly not okay to rummage through her personal life just to satisfy a tawdry curiosity . 	Narratively gripping , visually striking , and ultimately thought-provoking , Finding Vivian Maier shines an overdue spotlight on its subject 's long-hidden brilliance .
born into brothels As much a plea as a movie , 'Born into Brothels ' moves one deeply . A devastating portrait of impoverished Calcutta children who are born into the sex trades , yet the film is also an inspiring document about human possibilities and the need to strive despite impossible odds . Meeting these young photographers is delightful , but what this film needed to transcend into greatness is more of Briski . Captures hope and compassion in a shady part of humanity most probably unaccustomed to such things . Heroism can come in subtle forms . This is one of them . The children themselves are mostly upbeat and often happy . At the same time , they have an adult-like realization that their lives are likely to be short , and grim . Oh , Calcutta -- harsh and real like we 've never seen it . ... This is one dazzling documentary that continues to develop . If the film itself is not stellar , the humanitarian efforts it documents are . In this case , the content is more noble than the way it 's presented . A perfect , and perfectly calculated , documentary . the film educates as well as inspires , and sincerely represents social activism in the best ways 	A powerful and uplifting documentary .
view to a kill This Bond eats quiche . Registers as another high-flying James Bond adventure story . The inauspicious implosion of Roger Moore 's stint as James Bond , not with a bang but a whimper . Moore should have bowed out after the superb `` Octopussy '' , but this is still a pretty good time at the movies . As certain films in the Bond series have set specific benchmarks for tone , A View to a Kill is James Bond in comic book perfection . This is n't the best Bond movie , but like all of the Bonds , it does provide two hours of fairly solid escapism . Moore definitely goes out on a high note with this effort . This one , directed by John Glen , just follows the numbers , plodding from one unimaginative set piece to the next . Moore 's final Bond picture is one too late . Walken is a fine villian , though . It is exhausted and exhausting , an old joke retold once too often . 	Absurd even by Bond standards , A View to a Kill is weighted down by campy jokes and a noticeable lack of energy .
green mile At the very least , The Green Mile is engaging and even moving . Beautifully crafted and emotionally satisfying . Stuart Little , you may have competition ! A manipulative but absorbing and deeply satisfying adaptation of Stephen King 's prison novel . Hanks is a genuine pleasure to watch . Although The Green Mile is a satisfying and affecting movie , it 's not The Shawshank Redemption -- not by a long shot . Stephen King may be a cheeseball , but he spins one hell of a yarn . Superior craft is something we 've come to expect from modern movies , but not soul . It 's the soul of this movie that 's so heartening . An epic ! Although the current production runs three hours , I was n't really bored at any point . 	Though The Green Mile is long , critics say it 's an absorbing , emotionally powerful experience .
last airbender The film , which is a live-action adaptation of a Nickelodeon Asian-anime-influenced cartoon series , is supposed to be the start of a new movie franchise . Forget about it . A movie that 's as thick as the earth , as enraging as fire , and about as watery and windy as a giant cinematic wet fart . I can accurately and completely review The Last Airbender by quoting my ten-year-old daughter 's own thoughts on the movie : `` They messed up everything . '' Would it be more accurate to call this The Last Shyamalan Movie ? The Last Airbender , for all its Shyamalan-style grandiosity , is completely harmless and inoffensive , and at the very least , Shyamalan appears to be having a little fun here . It 's worth putting up with M. Night the writer to enjoy the work of M. Night the director . The Last Airbender lays there , stillborn , potential squandered ... a sad indicator of just how completely Shyamalan has thrown away his own gifts , the last stop on what has been a very disappointing career arc . With poorly executed action , wooden acting and a dead script , this fantasy film is a strong contender for a Razzie . Not since Kyle MacLachlan 's whispered voice-overs about the worm and the spice and the worm IS the spice in Dune has a fantasy franchise tripped all over itself trying , simply , to please a fan base while creating a new one . How did Shyamalan get it so wrong ? 	The Last Airbender squanders its popular source material with incomprehensible plotting , horrible acting , and detached joyless direction .
junebug Junebug is a textbook case of filmmakers who ca n't make up their minds about their characters ; it 's a failure of nerve disguised as dramatic ambiguity . A generally quiet film grounded in character studies , where things just happen as they naturally might -- and where things are n't tied up in neat little packages . Junebug is the older , wiser sibling of home-for-the-holidays family melodramas like Pieces of April . Amy Adams gives an Oscar worthy performance in this quiet , contemplative film about southern family life . As refreshing as a tall glass of iced tea with mint on a hot summer 's day , Junebug is one of the year 's most beguiling films . At every moment when `` Junebug '' could choose dramatic clich , even with Ashley 's pregnancy , it 's beautifully subtle . A poetic , graceful tale about the comforts and oddities of returning home to family . Features an astounding performance from comparative unknown Amy Adams that is all the more satisfying in that it does n't overwhelm the film . Morrison mostly succeeds in his attempt to show how secret knowledge can result in sudden violence as well as long-term , lived-in acceptance . An artfully simple , quietly perceptive movie ... one of the most honest , revealing portraits of familial love and friction to hit the screen in years . I found most of the characters to be either uninteresting or annoying . 	Aided and abetted by a wonderful cast , director Phil Morrison transforms familiar material into an understated and resonant comedy .
indiana jones and the temple of doom Seems to forgo characterization and plot development in favor of action sequences that do n't necessarily feature as much exciting action as in its predecessor . Terrific opening with 'Anything Goes ' in Chinese -- then the kid shows up and it 's downhill . The darker side of Spielberg . The kind of movie where your date is always grabbing your forearm in a viselike grip , as unbearable excitement unfolds on the screen . After the movie is over , you 've had a great time but your arm is black-and-blue for a week . Where the brilliant `` Raiders '' was an adventure film aimed at the child at heart , `` Temple of Doom '' is really designed for the kiddie market itself . With the action nonstop there is no time for mere acting , much less for a coherent plot . ... it 's cathartic as hell , for Spielberg and for those of us who go for the ride . The mayhem is transporting , inspired , exultant ... There is little to appreciate here in terms of craft or characterization -- but the whole thing bounces along so damn nicely , who cares ? You know , the more distance I get from this , the more I think : man , what a dark , depressing film . I think when it came out I was just that desperate for a new Indy flick . From our perspective it is still a very good piece of Hollywood entertainment , much superior to the more recent examples of same genre . 	It may be too `` dark '' for some , but Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom remains an ingenious adventure spectacle that showcases one of Hollywood 's finest filmmaking teams in vintage form .
moustache A deliciously unsettling , beautifully sustained enigma , a film of much beauty and flawless performances , especially from Vincent Lindon in one of his most demanding roles . It 's a brief , simple film that never overreaches but , if you 're into it , it raises fascinating questions about identity . Too many narrative illogicalities make the 86 minutes seem long , despite two excellent performances and an intriguing premise . Those looking for a good thriller should be pleased enough and those seeking a serious art film will get plenty of philosophy with their pretty pictures . The film is an unpretentious blank slate -- almost totally without point but so unassuming it earns consideration . Leaps from a gripping identity thriller into a strange yet equally involving adventure about the bounds of self-knowledge and the incredible liberty of disregarding them . The Moustache provides a feast of sustained tension . an awfully rickety , hollow exercise in style over substance What the movie lacks visually , it makes up for with the performances , especially by Lindon , who leads us on a journey we want to stick with even if we ca n't fully understand . An absorbing riddle posed in cool , matter-of-fact tones . 	Though the premise may be modest on the surface , Carrere uses a man and his mustache that may or may not exist as a springboard into psychological suspense and unsettling questions .
woman on the beach The scenery 's great and the performances adequate , but wake me when it 's over . Woman On The Beach is a stripped-down , witty explication of how we all get stymied by the impulses and options inherent in the simple act of living . Woman on the Beach is a bittersweet accounting of the geography of desire . Newcomers intoxicated by Hong 's amorous pileups and power plays will hopefully treat the movie as the gateway to an incredible back catalog . Simple and nicely convoluted at the same time . Hong has a deceptively simple director 's touch , an organic breeziness that makes things feel spontaneous and improvised . A marvelously acted and memorably atmospheric picture . A wonderful , serious-minded romantic comedy-drama about a film director 's uncertain relations with two successive women while trying to write a script at an off-season beach resort , this is Korean buff favorite Hong Sang-soo 's most accessible film . A study of mannerisms and relationships that pauses for the occasional philosophic sidebar . None of it is very compelling , thanks in large part to Hong 's painfully perfunctory camera style . 	Hong brings his usual light touch to this well-acted salvo in the battle of the sexes .
eagle eye The pic 's first 35 minutes sizzle until a Byzantine plot nudges the story toward near-parody in the final act . The cast is not the problem . They are are merely pawns in this cluttered , Ritalin-infused action film that stretches plausibility so often that it would be more accurately described as science fiction . Eagle Eye should boast all sorts of contemporary resonance . But it 'd probably feel just a little bit timelier and more relevant if it took place in a universe that bore even the faintest resemblance to our own . Rarely has a film been so serious in its underlying implications and intent , and yet so moronic in its execution . A promising premise , some intense action , and a lively appearance by Billy Bob Thornton might have been enough to squeak this one by as a summer movie . But do we care ? This is a disastrous mess . Attempting to tap into the public 's collective fears and suspicions comes D.J . Caruso 's preposterous Eagle Eye , an action film with plenty of thrills but I have no idea what alternate reality it 's set in . The 1984 nightmare has been bolted to 2001 ( as in Space Odyssey ) to make one of the better action thrillers of 2008 With a preposterous plot that does not bear close analysis , Eagle Eye should fall short . But such is the breakneck pace of proceedings the holes in the story zoom by too fast for you to notice . And for all its flaws , it 's an enjoyable slice of hokum . The only title that works for this movie is Three Days of the Mongoloid . 	Eagle Eye is a preposterously plotted thriller that borrows heavily from other superior films .
apt pupil Nothing about the movie even makes sense ! The most disappointing thing about Apt Pupil is the lack of sustained tension generated by director Bryan Singer . Murky storytelling ! Flat , undistinguished workmanship ! We expect a probing examination of the essence of evil , but the film stays too close to the surface to deliver any insight . Effective but not overwhelming , bone-chilling but not blood-freezing , Apt Pupil is a good shocker that misses the ultimate horror . A creepy , well-acted story of contagious evil ! `` Pupil '' demonstrates Singer 's eye for framing shots and his skill in bringing out the best in his stars . Even so , there 's something amiss here . A somber and deeply creepy adaptation . If Bowden 's motivations were clearer , Apt Pupil might have gone somewhere interesting . 	A somewhat disturbing movie that works as a suspenseful thriller , yet is n't completely satisfying .
tadpole Like a final project from a student film class , it has a raw and unsophisticated look ... But that might be a good thing . Lives up to its billing as a smart , funny coming-of-age comedy . This breezy romantic trifle is n't nearly as clever as it imagines itself to be , but it 's smart enough not to take itself too seriously . No amount of hype will turn this murky pre-frog into anything resembling an indie prince . [ Stanford ] deftly switches between Oscar 's self-assigned roles -- the charming raconteur for Eve , the aloof aesthete for everyone else -- while Neuwirth radiates a saucy , infectious giddiness . While the writers resolve Oscar 's emotional state a little too easily , the conflict itself is beautifully handled , especially in Weaver 's able hands Most folks with a real stake in the American sexual landscape will find it either moderately amusing or just plain irrelevant . Tadpole is smart and sophisticated entertainment , whatever its shortcomings , and it deserves to be encouraged . Celebrated at Sundance , this slight comedy of manners has winning performances and a glossy , glib charm that 's hard to beat . Stuffy , full of itself , morally ambiguous and nothing to shout about . 	Slight , but good-natured and witty .
bill cunningham new york 2010 Bill Cunningham New York is as winning as its subject , the affable chronicler of New York style from the sidewalk to the runway . ... a film which captures the spirit of Cunningham 's work and life . It 's a great and modest film . This is a rare and special film that should be savoured It 's not just what he does . It 's who he is . And he approaches it with such unbridled passion and joy that you ca n't help but sharing in it ; absolutely no knowledge or love of fashion is required . A beautiful portrait of a truly happy man . Mere fashionistas pale alongside the tenacious commitment of the utterly obsessed subject of this diverting documentary-one of New York 's great characters . He was the first , and what 's obvious from this lively and engaging doc , an original . If the film suggests that there 's something bittersweet about a life dedicated to a single pursuit cultivated with an almost religious fervor , it also stands in awe of its subject 's ... capacity to remain attuned to the expression of others . Those who pore over his fashion columns in the New York Times Style section will particularly appreciate this respectful look at a true local character . 	Suffused with happiness and modest charm , Bill Cunningham New York offers a touching , gently humorous portrait of its subject without invading his jealously guarded privacy .
meet the fockers This sequel 's title indicates the content : smutty , silly and liable to make you smirk despite yourself . Hoffman , in particular , is a delight - he has an infectious comic energy that seems to light up the rest of the cast . Meet the Fockers is not much of a movie -- just a lot of comic situations barely held together by the semblance of a plot -- but it is genuinely funny in a crass way . Although not as disarmingly funny the second time around , inspired casting means that , unlike most in-laws , the Fockers do n't outstay their welcome . A quick-and-dirty cash-grab sequel , one that substitutes stunt casting for character work and schtick for writing . There is some fun in watching the veterans mix it up -- De Niro , who looks like he wants to fade into the scenery , Streisand , who tries to eat it -- but nothing is well developed here . Forced and formulaic sequel ... is a tedious disappointment . The awkward , uncomfortable charms of the previous picture have here been replaced with an aggressive vulgarity that bears not even a passing resemblance to human behavior . Never has so much talent been wasted with so little imagination . The laughs are few and far between , bearing only a sloppy , derivative resemblance to its predecessor . 	Talented cast is wasted as the movie is content with recycling jokes from its predecessor , Meet the Parents .
1220551-bounty hunter I do n't just hand out zeroes becuase I 'm having a bad day . I really tried to like this movie . But it 's one of the most boring , awful films so far in 2010 . The putrid result never rises even to the lofty heights of mediocrity . This week 's entry in the neverending circle of watered-down , mid-range , completely unmemorable Hollywood comedies . I like Jennifer Aniston , but heaven knows what attracted her to this junk . A great time killer for anybody who needs help being bored . 'The Bounty Hunter ' is a fast-paced , action-packed romantic comedy . I 'm surprised at how much I enjoyed it , especially after seeing those underwhelming previews . When it comes to Aniston , maybe it 's simply time to settle and stop asking her to be The Good Girl anymore -- perky just might be as good as it gets . On the soundtrack , Jerry Reed sings `` She Got the Goldmine ( I Got the Shaft ) . '' Viewers will know exactly the same feeling . If Jennifer Aniston and Gerard Butler are indeed a real-life couple , The Bounty Hunter may be designed to keep the paparazzi off their trail There 's so little chemistry between the two , they might as well have cast Mick Fleetwood and Samantha Fox and had done with it . 	Gerard Butler and Jennifer Aniston remain as attractive as ever , but The Bounty Hunter 's formula script does n't know what to do with them -- or the audience 's attention .
258 The work of a lunatic using his own feces to outline an uncomfortably abstract tale of ridiculous possession , brought to life through some of the most excruciatingly obvious and colossally stilted dialogue I ? ve heard so far this year . A typically ruthless and cynically comic horror thriller from Craven , set in a high school where the caste system is more terrifying than the possibility of a murderous ghost ( the bullying leader of the mean girls is nicknamed 'Fang ' ) . Though the movie 's about some sort of eternal killer , the real culprit here is Craven , whose attempt to feed on his earlier successes results in a structurally slipshod and distinctly non-frightening pastiche . Might not be Wes Craven 's best film , but it 's certainly his worst . The silly story can be forgiven . Almost no other living director can instill such a sense of gleeful dread in the autumn woods ... or in an ordinary house . full review at Movies for the Masses A single-serving package of adrenaline that wears off quickly . Easily the worst movie of Craven 's career and not even remotely scary or creepy or any of the things you expect from a good horror movie . The worst horror movie Wes Craven 's made perhaps ever . disappointing in the way it drags out its narrative to little effect , substituting cheap revelations and sometimes incoherent action for anything resembling the kind of innovation and verve that is the hallmark of Craven 's best work 	Dull , joyless , and formulaic , My Soul to Take suggests writer/director Wes Craven ended his five-year filmmaking hiatus too soon .
black balloon At its sharpest Elissa Down 's feature directorial debut is guided by intense , rough-edged emotional swings that feel authentically alive , even when the script settles for tidiness . Tackles a serious theme with energy and what sometimes feels like too much hilarity . But as the story deepens , it really gets hold of us . Collette aside , there is no wow factor in The Black Balloon -- just a not-bad story told with better-than-average skill . The Black Balloon is such a gracefully conceived film , yet crafted with a raw , unflinching honesty exploring the simultaneous sorrow and joy that can define severe family afflictions . A deeply personal film for writer/director Elissa Down , The Black Balloon is a gentle yet unflinching look at a family strained by the pressures of caring for an autistic teenager . A touching Australian film about a young man 's coming-of-age and the re-negotiation of his relationship with his older autistic brother . It sometimes skirts melodrama territory , but the deep emotions ultimately are real and gratifying . Dependable Toni Collette keeps it grounded , disappearing into her role as the incredibly patient mother . The blooming puppy love between Thomas and Jackie lends The Black Balloon a welcome strain of tenderness . Mr. Wakefield and Ms. Ward project the innocence of shy , sensitive young people for whom a tentative shared kiss is a very big deal . Feels stitched together from countless coming of age tales and dramas with mentally impaired characters . Collette acts as an anchor for the ensemble , but the young leads credibly hold their own onscreen . 	A tender and witty portrayal of a family coping with autism , The Black Balloon is heartfelt without being schmaltzy or moralizing .
things we lost in the fire Damaged individuals healing one another is a serviceable idea for a film , but Things We Lost in the Fire is missing an essential component : plausibility . Look for Benicio Del Toro 's name next to my friend Hal Holbrook and ( hopefully ) Max Von Sydow when the Best Supporting Actor names are listed . The film felt very anti-climatic to me for some reason . Every trace of maudlin evaporates in one of Del Toro 's lopsided grins . Things We Lost in the Fire is the best of the recent crop of films about coping with loss . It also boasts a quietly riveting performance by Benicio Del Toro . You ca n't manufacture honest sentiment ... . So , I 'd have to call the movie a noble miss . Less than profound , but consistently honest , Things We Lost in the Fire is neither triumphant nor great , but it is meaningful . Often as overwrought as it is heartrending . ... raw and anguished performances ... It 's very strong . 	Things We Lost in the Fire is a well-acted , beautifully filmed reflection on love , loss , addiction and recovery from life 's obstacles .
raging bull Among the greatest films of the 1980s , but not Scorsese 's best . Filmed in a gritty , naturalistic style in luminescent black and white , Martin Scorsese 's tortuous film is a fascinating exploration of a diseased man 's soul . Clearly the best fight film ever . Maybe the best film ever too . The film that many consider the finest of its decade . Every swirling camera movement , every distinctive angle , has a real reason for existing in this story of world middleweight boxing champ Jake La Motta . Robert De Niro 's metamorphosis into boxing legend Jake La Motta ( AKA the Bronx Bull ) is one of the most impressive acting transformations on celluloid . The most obvious basis for the film 's claim to greatness lies in Scorsese 's devastating critique of the very codes of masculinity that shaped him as a filmmaker , and in Robert De Niro 's performance , through which that critique is made flesh . I ca n't pan it , but this 1980 fantasy biography of fighter Jake LaMotta seems unquestionably Martin Scorsese 's weakest work , at least to that point in his career . Scorsese and De Niro built up such a rapport that the actor became an extension of the director 's vision . The boxing sequences have little to do with reality , but cinematically they explode . 	Arguably Martin Scorsese 's and Robert De Niro 's finest film , Raging Bull is often painful to watch , but it 's a searing , powerful work about an unsympathetic hero .
battlefield earth A disaster of epic proportions . It 's incessantly loud , underlit and badly directed -- actually not so much directed as ineptly assembled , with no action sequence going unbotched . Here is a picture that will be hailed without controversy as the worst of its kind ever made . It could be renamed Ed Wood 's Planet of the Apes if that title did n't promise more cheesy fun than the movie actually delivers . A disaster of epic proportions ! The emphasis placed on indoctrination , enslavement and superior alien intelligence brings the film troublingly close to subliminal propaganda , while the script is so banal you 'd have to be brainwashed to enjoy it . Christian has chosen ... the sneaky trick ... of making ... the film ... so ... plodding ... that you 'll leave ... the theater ... wondering ... whether ... 1,000 years ... have ... passed ... since ... you ... went ... in . finds ( Travolta ) wobbling around in the highest platform shoes since Elton John and sporting bizarre dreadlocks ... the oddest vanity production imaginable , one in which the main attraction is nearly impossible to recognize . One can only hope for John Travolta 's sake that his sci-fi epic Battlefield Earth was meant to be an uproarious comedy . If not , everyone connected with it is in deep , deep trouble . This film maintains a surprising consistency of bad acting and directing almost from the first frame to the last . It 's as if Travolta wanted to destroy his career again just to see if he could stage another comeback . 	Ugly , campy , and poorly acted , Battlefield Earth is a stunningly misguided , aggressively bad sci-fi folly .
a touch of sin Unique and brilliant . It 's a bold , invigorating statement from a director who keeps reinventing himself . Sin , more stylized than the director 's previous work , is also more detached . `` A Touch of Sin '' is by no means subtle , but it is composed with a passion and sinuous grace that makes it far more effective than many other sincere message movies . Director Jia Zhangke 's measured fury is evident in every frame . In two decades of moviemaking , China 's Jia Zhangke has examined the damage of his country 's explosive growth with a poetic sense of outrage . With his latest effort , the implied violence bubbles over . A film that could only be made by a fearless director fully aware of his powers , and unafraid to grapple with ideas that might break him . Jia offers a stark presentation ( no music , few edits ) that discourages vicarious thrills ; the violence is startling , not cool . An inside look at the mean streets of modern day China . It 's a strikingly shot picture with some genuine dramatic weight , but as an overall piece of understanding , the movie leaves too much obscured , keeping the viewer in the dark despite some incredibly intimate acts of deliberation . 	Its screenplay is n't as graceful as the choreography of its action sequences , but A Touch of Sin offers enough stylishly satisfying violence to muscle past its rough spots .
for love of the game Costner 's performance as Chapel , however , ranks with his best work . Instead of quitting while he 's way ahead , Costner takes on For Love of the Game , a melodramatic film version of Michael Shaara 's novel . [ Raimi 's ] involvement in this grating star vehicle is perhaps the most disappointing aspect of For the Love of the Game : the Evil Dead are , presumably , turning in their grave . The copious footage devoted to Billy and Jane 's encounters might have been easier to sit through is there was any magic between Costner and Preston , but they 're acting in two different films . *For Love of the Game continually pushes its luck past the breaking point . What is it about Kevin Costner in a baseball uniform ? Costner is as uneven as the storytelling itself , stone cold at moments , shimmeringly real in others . Costner and company do a fine job getting you into the head of an aging sports idol at a pivotal moment in his life . I 'm all for romance , you understand . But what makes this a drawback is that these people are all wrong for each other and that the filmmakers do n't seem to know it . Thinking back through the movie , I can not recall a single thing either character said that was worth hearing in its own right , apart from the requirements of the plot . 	Baseball wins , romance loses .
1159100-oh in ohio there simply is n't enough material here to carry a short , much less an hour-and-a-half-long feature We wind up feeling like Priscilla after sex with her husband : It was really fun at first ; we just hoped it would end differently . Ohio , and Cleveland in particular , deserve much better than this . Are you asking me to believe that a one-time stoner would be so inspired by a science class that she 'd become a National Merit Scholar and get into Harvard ? Sex comedies often glean laughs out of sexual humiliation , but when the laughs do n't come -- and The Oh In Ohio is devoid of even the mildest chuckles -- all that 's left is the humiliation . It 's as if the filmmakers lost their nerve when it came time to write the kind of intimate , revealing conversation that can make a sex toy unnecessary . I felt some of its heroine 's pain . She 's spent her life waiting for an orgasm . I spent the movie waiting for a plot . Blurs the line between risque and raunchy , often to hilarious effect . Or more aptly , The Aw in Awful . Comedies for grown-ups , period , are now in such short supply that a good-natured little picture like The Oh in Ohio feels like an anomaly . 	A muddled sex-comedy that feels oddly sexless , The Oh in Ohio packs in too many ideas without establishing a clear identity or objective .
arlington road Arlington Road is rousing summer entertainment ! The film has a glossy , enjoyable surface . A tight , well-rounded piece of suspense/thriller filmmaking with an electric performance by Bridges . The only sequence more shocking than the film 's disturbing opener is its last . An engrossing thriller ! Arlington Road is actually a fairly entertaining , makes-you-think piece . Arlington Road is a moderately engaging suspense film . Mostly devoid of suspense ! The film 's at its best before the convoluted plot kicks in , as neighbourliness gives way to suspiciousness and the men test each other 's credentials . This is a sloppily made film , imitative of the smoother made The Parallax View . 	A suspenseful thriller led by strong cast performances built around a somewhat implausible story .
dont look now Director Nicolas Roeg expertly hits on almost every accent that makes a thriller thrilling and engaging . A natureza onrica e labirntica do filme bem representada por Veneza , criando um clima de constante inquietao , mas a direo soa datada e o roteiro no consegue fugir das convenes do gnero , desperdiando a tima dinmica do casal principal . Not only do you probably have better things to do , but so , I 'm sure , do most of the people connected with the film . What makes Do n't Look Now stick with you is the potent undertow , the sense of guilt and despair that suffuses the Venice locations and plasters itself across Sutherland 's scowling face . Nicolas Roeg 's 1973 film remains one of the great horror masterpieces , working not with fright , which is easy , but with dread , grief and apprehension . Roeg here offers one of the most disconcerting portraits of otherworldliness ever seen on the screen . One of the most dynamic and radical British films ever made . It is a messy examination of entropy : things fall and fall apart and we try to restore what ca n't be repaired and recover what has already been irretrievably lost . Do n't Look Now uses the occult and the inexplicable as Henry James did : to penetrate the subconscious , to materialize phantoms from the psyche . Roeg maps Sutherland 's disintegrating psyche onto the city of Venice , with its labyrinthian alleys , murky canals , and crumbling facades . 	Do n't Look Now patiently builds suspense with haunting imagery and a chilling score -- causing viewers to feel Donald Sutherland and Julie Christie 's grief deep within .
miss congeniality 2 Beyond rescue or repair . The main problem with the film is that it 's at least 30 minutes too long - the plot simply is n't strong enough to sustain a two hour running time and the film runs out of steam way before the end . Sometimes , a movie is so abhorrent it 's difficult to think of the appropriate words . When I do , I ca n't print them here . MC 2 is one limp , dead fish of a comedy , all predictable characters and nonsensical storylines , filled with cheap would-be yuks and loads of talented people picking up paychecks . The things we loved most about # 1 were downplayed in favor of the things that were n't all that funny ; and a betrayal of the main character through most of it . In the end consider this - the only really watchable performance in this movie belongs to William Shatner . Congenial , maybe , but hardly fabulous . This follow-up to the surprising 2000 comedy hit is so deprived of charm and so full of shrill , forced humor that it may make fans of the original forget why they enjoyed it . [ Sandra Bullock is ] mildly amusing but everything around her is weak . Yet another lame , entirely predictable sequel with no reason for existing other than to make a quick buck . 	Sandra Bullock is still as appealing as ever ; too bad the movie is not pageant material .
jawbreaker Jawbreaker is the kind of film that makes you want to kidnap the director and lock him in a trunk , bound and gagged , so he does n't make any more movies like this . Death and comedy rarely mix , and this tedious and painfully un-funny effort by director Darren Stein is no exception . Another teen-sploitation flick ! An entertaining and smart film . A slick production of a lame script ! It is n't as funny as it sounds . In fact , it is n't funny at all . If you are up for a dark teen comedy , you could do much worse than Jawbreaker . Stupid and pointless ! Jawbreaker offers no new insights into teen hell . Teenagers , as well as the rest of the audience , really do n't need to insulted . 	This throwaway comedy falls victim to its hip sensibilities .
rush hour 3 The action is ho-hum , the attempts at comedy are inept and the whole mismatched partners mojo is all dried up in this snooze-worthy third , and hopefully last , Rush Hour flick . Proves that $ 25 million does not buy a good , or even bearable performance . When the outakes are the best part of a film , you know something 's seriously backward . Here 's Rush Hour 3 succinctly described in one word : Meh . I have never thought I would ever profess to be a Jackie Chan fan . Yet , at the ripe old age of 31 having just seen Rush Hour 3 , it appears that I am . Wild , funny and over-the-top action ! Rush Hour 3 is a stagnate yet still commercially viable franchise . It arrives on your theater screen infested with the mold of a dated , stale rehash . A movie that not only depends on but demands you do n't think in order to enjoy it . Yvan Attal steals what is otherwise an exhausted , workaday film . I hate to use the phrase , `` they 're only in it for the money , '' but if any sequel ever exemplified that ethos , it 's this one . Ultimately , Rush Hour 3 is a one trick pony whose day has long since passed . No matter how fast Chris Tucker shoots his mouth or Jackie Chan flashes his fists , they ca n't recapture the charm of the original Rush Hour in this third installment . 	Rush Hour 3 is a tired rehash of the earlier films , and a change of scenery ca n't hide a lack of new ideas .
boogeyman Bereft of even the slightest hint of style , creativity or originality , Boogeyman is endlessly boring , blatantly nonsensical and , frankly , absolutely worthless . winningly combines the creaking ambiguities and psychological chills of They with terrain more familiar from a haunted house movie . the entire cast seems to be on autopilot , and the behind-the-camera crew does n't try any harder . An incoherent grab-bag of disconnected shock effects -- stylishly mounted but ultimately empty and pointless . It 's difficult to remember a recent movie with less regard for spatial or temporal coherence . Boogeyman , shot in Auckland , lives and induces giggles instead of fear in yuckland . The only thing scary about Boogeyman is the sheer ineptitude of the 'filmmaking ' on display . Find two friends and laugh your way out of the local movie theater . If Boogeyman signals more films like this to follow , there are far worse nightmares out there to come than whatever is lurking in your closet . Boogeyman manages to make you do what films like Jeepers Creepers and Darkness Falls would n't let you do : believe . 	The plot is been-there done-that generic , and none of the shock effects can do anything to build up suspense .
particle fever Even if you ca n't explain the Standard Model or define `` supersymmetry , '' you 'll walk away with a conviction that you 've vicariously participated in a historic event . The fact that Mark Levinson 's engrossing Particle Fever was edited by the great Walter Murch gives it a better pedigree than most documentaries . The film allows for our awe . It also demonstrates that science is the most human of activities , with all that that implies . Set in crummy offices and towering facilities worthy of a Bond movie , the documentary is edited with the momentum of a thriller by the great Walter Murch ( Apocalypse Now ) , as we follow six scientists . A timely and fascinating look at physicists ' search for the Higgs boson . Informative and exciting ... an educational film that 's uplifting in the best sense . Its eventual slide into statistics comes to test patience , yet Levinson does n't lose the essential theme of the movie . A dazzling , dizzying documentary about nothing less than whether we exist in a coherent universe of ordered , even beautiful laws ... Where it excels is in depicting the various personalities involved . Particle Fever shows how the theorists and experimenters need and respect each other , in the course of setbacks , disappointments , premature celebrations and public relations glitches . 	The concepts behind its heady subject matter may fly over the heads of most viewers , but Particle Fever presents it in such a way that even the least science-inclined viewers will find themselves enraptured .
spinning into butter Butter makes a disastrous transition to film , aiming to salvage pertinent points on the witch 's brew of racism through a filmmaking undertaking perhaps best described as `` total clown shoes . '' It feels like an after school special . Credit goes to playwright Gilman and company for addressing an ugly situation head on . Unfortunately , it 's a scenario that lends itself to hot air and that 's what the movie blows . The film feels stuck in a particularly '90s-flavored argument -- about political correctness and culture wars on campus -- that you probably got tired of during your junior year . The material is crying out for a satiric wit or at least a stronger point of view . Instead , it 's a mishmash in which everyone gets to say his piece , but all of it has been said before . Marred somewhat by a pat and rather unlikely conclusion , this movie does have the merit by lifting up the rock and examining liberal racism . If freshman film students were assigned to make a movie on race relations , this contrived attempt is probably what they 'd come up with The best of intentions and a welcome willingness to engage on the touchiest issues is not enough to keep this movie from feeling more like a seminar than a story . Shelf mold encrusts this misshapen adaptation of Spinning Into Butter , and Rebecca Gilman 's 1999 play about racism and toxic political correctness at a small Vermont college is lumpy enough as it is . The staging by theater director Mark Brokaw , in his first feature , is , well , stagy . I do n't mind a movie where people spend a lot of time jawboning , but what they say had better be interesting . 	Both leaden and stilted , Spinning into Butter is an unsubtle drama with stagy direction and lackluster dialogue .
inequality for all 2013 An engaging film that 's head and shoulders above the average talking-head parade . Any politician hoping to redistribute America 's wealth should screen it before every stump speech . Basically constitutes a liberal jeremiad , but it 's one presented with civility , good humor and a human face as well as impassioned conviction . The woods are full of `` Outrage Docs , '' but this one is special . An advocacy doc constructed to make a clear political point first and function as a film a distant second . Presents Reich 's position by patching together lectures from his `` Wealth & Poverty '' course at the University of California , Berkeley . Watch this film - and then show it to someone who refuses to educate themselves about what the financial situation is all about . Using income tax data going back 100 years , Reich draws parallels between the crashes of 1929 and 2008 : identical concentrations of wealth at the top and the destabilization of the middle class . Economist Robert Reich possesses a formidable intellect , an encyclopedic grasp of statistics and monetary trends , a quicksilver wit , and immense affability , making him the go-to guy when average Americans need our financial crises explained . Engaging economics docu encourages equality , activism . 	While it arrives in a glut of similarly themed documentaries , Inequality for All distinguishes itself with a compelling presentation of an important message , as well as much-needed splashes of wit .
the fountain sort of like a wild combination of 'The English Patient ' and '2001 : A Space Odyssey . ' ... Although it 's brave and beautiful , 'The Fountain ' is always more impressive than it is truly touching . As deeply emotional and damnably frustrating as any work of pure individual vision must be . A bravely nonlinear , noncommercial , and sadly noninteresting meditation on the desire to prolong youth and stave off death . It 's a spiritual journey about the timelessness of true love . And it 's a journey better not taken . Like the time traveler at its center , it 's all over the map . Despite its flaws , it 's still worth watching . If you 're a movie lover who despairs that big-scale filmmaking today consists of little more than a self-cannibalizing system of clichs , then you need , badly , to see The Fountain , soon . It 's tough to kick a mewing kitten , even one this stupid and ugly . The continuous sense of deeply felt discovery tempers the movie 's overreaching pretentiousness A cross between Stanley Kubrick 's 2001 and Douglas Sirk 's delicious 1954 soaper , Magnificent Obsession . 	The Fountain -- a movie about metaphysics , universal patterns , Biblical symbolism , and boundless love spread across one thousand years -- is visually rich but suffers from its own unfocused ambitions .
ace ventura when nature calls A guilty pleasure . There 's so little to watch besides Carrey , in fact , it makes you actually miss ( gasp ! ) Sean Young from Ace 1 . It 's silly stoo-pid merriment ... for any age . Click the read the article . ( No quote available . ) Painful to sit through . ... if you want to watch something brainless , this is n't a total waste . The first was funny , in a cheap way . The second is a disgrace . From the man who would one day give us Kung Pow . Need I say more ? Warner Bros. doubled the budget for this sequel in 1995 . For their trouble , they got half as funny a film . 	Nature Calls in this Ace Ventura sequel , and it 's answered by the law of diminishing returns .
motherhood Motherhood never comes to term . If Carrie Bradshaw ever trades her Manolos for sneakers and starts blogging about raising children , I pray she would n't be as tiresome as the heroine of Katherine Dieckmann 's insufferable comedy Motherhood . An authentic account of stressed-out parenting , but anyone sans sprogs will find limited appeal in this one-trick pony . Few vanity projects can be as ill-conceived as this laughless , goggingly slow Uma Thurman vehicle . Motherhood is neither insight nor escapism . It 's a yummy-mummy newspaper column splurged onto celluloid , like baby sick on your best cashmere sweater . If Ms. Dieckmann really thinks that people communicate as inanely as she has written this script , then we are all doomed . Motherhood gives upper-middle-class whining a bad name . Disappointing , faintly patronising comedy-drama that 's light on both laughs and drama . Parenting dramedy entertains but unlikely to appeal to kids . [ Motherhood ] not only overdoes its premise , but it 's hampered by several flaws . When it tries to be serious , it 's too earnest , and when it tries to strike a chord , it 's banal . 	Despite Uma Thurman 's comic skills , Motherhood 's contrived set-ups and cliched jokes keep this comedy from delivering laughs -- or insights into modern parenting .
abyss What was once a well-made , well-acted mess is now a very poignant and satisfying sci-fi adventure . If the 1989 cut is a thrill ride , then the 1993 revamp is a frequently wrenching emotional roller coaster . Pretty great underwater adventure . I 'd sooner believe that Moby Dick could swim up the drainpipe . This overlong concoction is scuppered by dire dialogue , histrionic performances and maudlin sentimentality . Begins with a bang and just keeps on rolling . As a follow-up to Cameron 's great sci-fi Aliens , The Abyss is too verbose for an actioner and the special effects , striking as they are , are not well integrated into the narrative , but it 's still worth seeing . ... the undersea adventure may have you waterlogged after the first hour . The Abyss gains in some ways from its own Achilles heels , in a way most movies do n't ... its formal technique , its reckless obsessiveness , and its gutsy emotionalism are what I ca n't stop turning over in my mind . Click to read review 	The utterly gorgeous special effects frequently overshadow the fact that The Abyss is also a totally gripping , claustrophobic thriller , complete with an interesting crew of characters .
boondock saints Duffy 's models are clearly snarky , ultraviolent Tarantino-esque crime pictures , but this movie 's cleverness is never quite on a par with its bloodlust . A ridiculous , self-important amalgamation of rehashed macho posturing and slow-motion bloodletting . Do yourself a favor : do not attend a convocation with these Saints . The Boondock Saints , sorry to say , was n't worth the trouble . Duffy has made a film that sort of straddles the fine line between great movie and useless piece of garbage . An embarrassing waste of time , and nothing even resembling the guiltiest of guilty pleasures ... Visualmente interessante , o filme se corrompe ao fazer apologia da `` justia com as prprias mos '' . Ainda assim , a atuao de Dafoe merece ser conferida . If you ca n't sit back and enjoy an entertaining popcorn flick like The Boondock Saints , then you 'll probably never understand the difference between the movies and real life . While I do n't think the flick really has much of a brain in its head ... it sure is n't boring . [ A ] dim-witted , aesthetically clunky Tarantino clone . Willem Dafoe 's portrayal of the conflicted homosexual FBI agent is overacted to such an extent that it is hilarious , amazing and entertaining . His is an unforgettable character . 	A juvenile , ugly movie that represents the worst tendencies of directors channeling Tarantino .
en kongelig affaere Sometimes falling in love can really change the world or at least the fate of a nation . Nikolaj Arcel 's A Royal Affair does n't quite have the potency of a fleeting , passionate romance , so much as it mimics the drawn-out dissolution of a relationship . While it 's lavish and lush in all the expected costume-drama ways , A Royal Affair never bogs down in period detail . Unfortunately it never fully comes to life . A Royal Affair covers plenty of stately ground , all in good time . Visually exquisite , the ingredients of this royal Danish historic drama are as sensational as they are gripping A Royal Affair is a welcome break from the current plethora of morbid Scandinavian thrillers ; instead , Rasmus Heisterberg and Nikolaj Arcel have co-adapted an unfamiliar but well documented true story of 18th century Danish royalty . In the immortal words of King Louis XVI -- or was it Mel Brooks ? -- it 's good to be the king . A lovely history lesson , but a film without the spark of invention that makes this parable feel modern ... An absorbing and intelligent mixture of history lesson and forbidden romance . 	A Royal Affair is a lavish and sumptuous costume drama with a juicy story to back it up .
daybreakers The pacing misses a few beats and the satire never pops , but `` Daybreakers '' comes as a welcome retort to the vampire bubblegum genre that horror fans have had to tolerate . Once the world is set up , the follow-through comes up short . This stylish film at least has a sense of its own absurdity . While it plays everything dead straight , it also has a lot of fun with the rules of the genre . Yes , Daybreakers is another vampire film , but do n't hold it against it . This is stuff Twilight fans have nightmares about ... Daybreakers reminds us that from Twilight to Underworld , True Blood to The Vampire Diaries , this is one genre where supply has utterly overwhelmed demand . Daybreakers was unceremoniously dumped into theaters by unadventurous studio heads in the first week of January , [ but ] one should n't take their cluelessness seriously : Daybreakers is so much better than they would have you believe . Makes little sense , but earns points for the operatic , slow-motion vampire equivalent of the Barf-a-Rama scene from Stand By Me . There is a lot of non-sparkly going on , if you know what I mean . Takes an idea that also happens to be a MESSAGE , in a genre that has been sucked dry , and still make something watchable . It 's not the most brilliant vampire movie ever made , but it 's the best one of 2010 . This intriguing premise , alas , ends as so many movies do these days , with fierce fights and bloodshed . Inevitably , the future of the planet will be settled among the handful of characters we 've met , and a lot of extras with machineguns . 	Though it arrives during an unfortunate glut of vampire movies , Daybreakers offers enough dark sci-fi thrills -- and enough of a unique twist on the genre -- to satisfy filmgoers .
happy gilmore Sandler putts one in for a winner . The story has all the thickness of a well-trimmed green , but it 's a decent excuse for some heady sight gags . There are about three minutes of funny material in Happy Gilmore , and pretty much all of them are in the trailer . As dumb as Caddyshack was , though , it seems like George Bernard Shaw compared to this poor stepchild . Back to stand-up , Adam Sandler . Sandler at his crazy , comical best ... .side-splitting stuff~ there 's still plenty of true immaturity to go around A lame , unoriginal comedy that may offer a few scattered chuckles , but more often than not , serves up a bewildering series of bizarre non-jokes , supposedly ironic product placement , cheesy music cues , and tired sight gags . To my own surprise , I laughed a lot . You probably already know if you think Adam Sandler is funny , so let that be your guide . A bigtime guilty pleasure for me . 	Those who enjoy Adam Sandler 's schtick will find plenty to love in this gleefully juvenile take on professional golf ; those who do n't , however , will find it unfunny and forgettable .
solaris This is definitely one of those ambiguous films that I want to watch at least a couple of more times . Solaris light - shorter , more focused , more accessible , sweeter . A mind-bender in the best sense of the word : The spell it casts follows you all the way home . The film 's real appeal wo n't be to Clooney fans or adventure buffs , but to moviegoers who enjoy thinking about compelling questions with no easy answers . Clooney , Davies , Davis and McElhone give some outstanding performances , the set design is solid , and the music hypnotic . Soderbergh seems capable only of delivering artfully lighted , earnest inquiries that lack the kind of genuine depth that would make them redeemable . Pleasingly , Soderbergh does not pander much to expectations and more than once evokes Stanley Kubrick 's 2001 : A Space Odyssey . There 's no emotional pulse to Solaris . With an emotional sterility to match its outer space setting , Soderbergh 's spectacular swing for the fence yields only a spectacular whiff . A thought-provoking exploration of the elusive nature of relationships . What words can not express , what Soderbergh himself scarcely seems to understand , Clooney transforms into genuine , graspable human feeling . 	Slow-moving , cerebral , and ambiguous , Solaris is not a movie for everyone , but it offers intriguing issues to ponder .
dragon wars There 's not a spark of sense here . The rampaging-monsters flick Dragon Wars loudly speaks the universal language of effects-laden mayhem . Unfortunately , it is also fluent in the laughable dialogue of a million bad fantasy flicks . A feast of A-grade f/x married to a Z-grade , irony-free script . The only winners in Dragon Wars are the computer-imaging geeks who must have logged tons of overtime . The rest of the world is left scratching its head at a monster epic so dismal that it does n't even register as a guilty pleasure . Shim 's picture is suitable for youngsters and delivers enough goofy fun to keep adults with fond memories of Destroy All Monsters ( 1968 ) from getting restless . This one really should have been immediately relegated to the discount bin . The prospect of being a human sacrifice for a roaring , scaly , 600-foot-long monster is n't so appealing . One of those films that I would swerve into on the SciFi Channel late one night and stay up until the wee hours of the morning to watch without feeling guilty at all . This monster film makes even the remake of Godzilla look good . We 've all heard of movies so bad they 're good , and some folks have them on DVD , in captivity . But how many of us have seen one in the wild ? 	Dragon Wars ' special effects ca n't make up for an unfocused script and stale acting .
in good company ... creates fully-realized characters that are not just smart and dedicated , but also flawed and likable . You ca n't help liking it , no matter how much or little you laugh . Flabby . ( S ) uperlative acting by Quaid and Grace ; brilliantly directed by Weitz . I walked out feeling happy with a big smile on my face . What more can you ask of a movie ? Fresh comic thinking spices up this smart cookie of a satire . A crowd-pleaser , an actors ' showcase , and a curious synergy of light comedy and heavy themes . Director Paul Weitz 's struggle through the personal and political strife of modern corporate life is a good movie with a great cast . A great comedy drama that is both a study of life , and relationships . Just crap A mature and penetrating view of cutthroat workplace politics and family drama . 	The witty and charming In Good Company offers laughs at the expense of corporate culture .
play misty for me Eastwood displays a vigorous talent for sequences of violence and tension . He has obviously seen Psycho and Repulsion more than once , but those are excellent texts and he has learned his lessons passing well . Clint Eastwood 's first film as a director , and first investigation into the anxiety at the root of the Eastwood persona I think the fault lies with Clint Eastwood the director , who has made too many easy decisions about events , about the management of atmosphere , about the treatment of performances . Em seu filme de estria como diretor , Eastwood troca a tenso pelo susto fcil a partir da segunda metade da trama , errando ainda no longo e embaraoso 'interldio musical ' . For his directorial debut , Clint Eastwood opted to make this relatively straightforward but hopelessly dated Fatal Attraction clone ( er , precursor ) . Clint Eastwood wisely chose a strong , simple thriller for his first film as a director , and the project is remarkable in its self-effacing dedication to getting the craft right . Play Misty for Me ( 1971 ) , Clint Eastwood 's first film as star and director , is a suspenseful , thrilling film of psychotic sexual obsession . Un suspense qui profita abondamment de la largesse d'esprit du cinma amricain de l'poque , peut-tre mme un peu trop ... Early , effective version of 'Fatal Attraction ' theme Eastwood 's imperfect debut movie is a thiller full of personality and zest . 	A coolly calculating psychological thriller that manages to scare the audience even if it is just using textbook thrills .
whos afraid of virginia woolf A vitriol Valentine to that most public of famous marriages , The Battling Burtons , in their finest work ( together ) . Who 's Afraid of Virginia Woolf ? ( 1966 ) , a famous and shocking black comedy , was based on Edward Albee 's scandalous play ( Ernest Lehman 's screenplay Perfect . Director Nichols , in his auspicious Hollywood debut , and scripter Ernest Lehman smartly keep Albee 's corrosively witty black comedy intact , allowing their ensmeble , including Liz Taylor , to dig deep and turn intensely entertaining performances . Stunning film version of the Albee play . `` I am the earth mother , and you are all flops , '' Martha proclaims toward the end , and Taylor never had a line of dialogue that better suited her fighting maternal spirit . Scathing scream of a black comedy that 's based on a play by Edward Albee . The greatest credit for the implacable engagement that the film creates for its audience must go to the director , Mike Nichols . Nichols makes a stunning film bow with Virginia Woolf . If one examines Albee 's The Zoo Story , Who 's Afraid of Virginia Woolf ? , and Tiny Alice as three views of the struggle for faith and the Christ myth and its nuances , the plays , on a particular level , gain a substantial meaning . A painful and compelling masterpiece . 	Led by a volcanic performance from Elizabeth Taylor , Who 's Afraid of Virginia Woolf ? is a scathing adaptation of the Edward Albee play that serves as a brilliant calling card for debuting director Mike Nichols .
the guest 2014 The Guest is n't here to deliver an earnest social message about the state of veterans ' affairs . Instead , the way good horror movies do , it channels our collective fear , guilt , and rage by creating a monster . Wingard 's direction is a robust throwback to the VHS gorefests of yore , but with a distinctly more modern slickness and snap . The Guest is assured of cult classic status in years to come , but will hopefully entertain the masses with its winning blend of crowd-pleasing humour and suspense . Cool as you like one second , camp as Christmas the next , this entertainingly overpumped action-horror will have genre fans ( and their mums ) grinning from ear to ear . May be trash , but it 's grade-A trash , an absurdly enjoyable piece of pulp hokum that 's a throwback to some of the best B-movies of the seventies and eighties . Wickedly entertaining . Picture Commando as a psychological thriller . Imagine Halloween as a theme park ride . Think Drive as a comedy . If The Guest were a colour it would be the neon blue of its title card : a little bit show-off , a little bit retro , but it 'll definitely brighten your night . Knowingly melodramatic , wonderfully cheesy and all-out bonkers , The Guest is an absolute blast from beginning to end . For those looking for shrewd satire to mix in with rousing action , this is a guest you wo n't want to turn away . 	Boasting enough intelligence to bolster its darkly violent thrills , The Guest offers another treat for genre fans from director Adam Wingard .
1042135-malcolm x Denzel Washington becomes Malcolm X . He delivers speeches the way we imagine Malcolm delivering them . Finds Lee 's tendencies towards gadflyish social outrage folded into the fabric of the typically reactionary biopic genre . Not a mere movie but a cinematic event . Malcolm X is n't pro-Black or anti-White : it has the intelligence to see the nuances in everyone . In the leading man category , Denzel Washington in Malcolm X managed to deliver the best performance of the decade . The perfect combination of epic and personal , intimate and spectacular . Diligently and respectfully tracks both the highs and the lows in the spiritual journey of one of America 's most important black leaders . It plays surprisingly safe as a solidly crafted trawl through the didactic/hagiographic conventions of the mainstream biopic . The point of Lee 's engrossing , scathing epic ... is that as long as racism lives , the spirit of Malcolm will -- must -- live . Lee sketches Malcolm 's life colorfully , if by the numbers . But he falls victim to the danger of movie biography : he elevates Malcolm 's importance until the vital historical context is obscured . 	Anchored by a powerful performance from Denzel Washington , Spike Lee 's biopic of the legendary civil rights leader brings his autobiography to life with an epic sweep and a nuanced message .
spiderman The comic book movie has developed its own cinematic language , Spider-Man possibly blooming into a series worthy of a rack in The Android 's Dungeon . Raimi and writer David Koepp never lose the lighthearted comic-book sensibility . Raimi does right by Stan Lee and Steve Ditko 's original creation via an old-fashioned comic book aesthetic . A movie that both thrills the eye and , in its over-the-top way , touches the heart . Webmasterful . That 's Tobey Maguire as angsty nerd Peter Parker and his arachnid alter ego Spider-Man . It 's got all that you 'd want from superhero movie and more . A truly enjoyable film . An adaptation of the Marvel Comics superhero adventures that effectively takes time between exhilarating digital effects to develop character and motivation . When the cast and their director are really cooking , they conjure a bipolar sense of high school-age emotion -- and use it to fuel outrageous fantasy . This is perhaps the most spot-on film adaptation of a comic book superhero yet . Sam Raimi is brilliant behind the camera and Spider-Man is a faithful and fun adaptation . 	Not only does Spider-Man provide a good dose of web-swinging fun , it also has a heart , thanks to the combined charms of director Sam Raimi and star Tobey Maguire .
the year my parents went on vacation The acting is uniformly fine . Director Cao Hamburger has a warm , delicate sensibility that informs the story 's commonplace events . Neither the story 's drama nor its comedy are overstated . This droll coming-of-age story , set in the turbulent year of 1970 , astutely captures the resilience of the human spirit . An emotionally touching Brazilian film about the spiritual riches and rewards of hospitality experienced by an abandoned and lonely young boy in a strange place . You 've heard this story before , but what makes The Year My Parents Went on Vacation worth seeing is the unfamiliar setting ... the Jewish community of Sao Paolo . It has little to do with any actual human experience and everything with re-creating experiences from other movies . Be patient and brace yourself for the climax ; the wait is definitely worthwhile . The film 's final third contains a glimmer of a great movie wanting to break out . We 've seen such coming-of-age tales many times before , and your liking of this movie will largely depend on how passionate you are about soccer . Heavy on nostalgic charm , but a lovely and insightful portrait of children buffeted by their parents ' leftist activism in the 1970 's and of So Paolo 's Jewish neighborhood . 	Hamburger deftly refracts the sociopolitical tumult of early '70s Brazil through the lens of a young boy 's coming of age , and Joelsas ' performance is wise beyond his years .
alamo Remembering this Alamo is a lot easier with the fiddle in the capable hands of Billy Bob . Does its best to shake off the baggage of its predecessors . The film utterly fails at bringing history to life . So much has gone wrong for The Alamo that it almost feels like piling on to say any more about it . The Alamo wants to wring the mythology out of its famous story , and I ca n't think of a better way than casting Bad Santa as Davy Crockett . The battle , when it finally comes , is brief , admirably non-gory and rather dull , chiefly because Hancock has neither the filmmaking brio it takes to let a camera fly madly into battle nor bad taste enough to enjoy the fight . It 's a movie more concerned with details like Jim Bowie 's terminal case of consumption than it is with the historical context of its story and its legendary characters . This is a profoundly ahistoric movie -- a definitive Hollywood muddle . [ T ] he whole film would be a cartoon if only it had the energy to be ridiculous . The way filmmaker Hancock addresses the material , one half expects Travis , Bowie , Crockett and the rest of the defenders to rise from their graves after three days . 	Too conventional and uninvolving to be memorable .
10010458-proposal The Proposal does n't blaze any new ground , but it does n't raze any old ground either . It 's a solid , old-fashioned romantic comedy that 's more interested in the romance than in being silly or raunchy . These days , that 's refreshing enough . Fletcher 's labored , downright desperate efforts at wringing laughs out of hopelessly stale material results in a series of entirely needless sequences ... Every scene between Bullock and Reynolds only suggests how fine they might be in good circumstances . This turns out to be another bad choice for Bullock who , without playing badly , sinks in the general morass . Shamelessly derivative , contrived and predictable , The Proposal is nonetheless a crowd-pleasing romantic comedy . It sounds like a faint recommendation , but trust me when I say that calling it `` not terrible '' is high praise indeed . A romantic comedy so numbing it feels like Novocaine . The Proposal restores Sandra Bullock to comic glory . It 's her best role since While You Were Sleeping . Thanks to casting and chemistry , this is the first great romantic comedy of the summer . A high gloss , studio Romcom with clichd jokes and conflicts that are as uncontroversial as they are predictable , The Proposal is rooted in the most classical of conventions and still finds ways to be surprisingly enchanting . 	Sandra Bullock and Ryan Reynolds exhibit plenty of chemistry , but they 're let down by The Proposal 's devotion to formula .
la tete en friche There is a rather too neat resolution , but it 's not one that anyone could really object to . This is a sweet , gentle , unashamedly sentimental film . An unlikely friendship is the heartbeat to this undeniably sweet French drama My Afternoons with Margueritte . A heaping pile of cliches does n't prevent this touchingly simplistic tale from exuding a strong and universal emotional appeal . Adapted from Marie-Sabine Roger 's novel , this is a modest heartwarmer enlivened by subtle performances and a colourful supporting cast . The film is leisurely paced , as many French films are , and not much actually happens , but as a character study , it feels true , and ultimately moving . Heart-warming French drama with a superb script and a terrific central performance from Gerard Depardieu . An appealing coming-of-middle-age comedy , My Afternoons With Margueritte exhibits a pleasantly light touch even when dealing with some fairly weighty issues . A disarming film with a pair of deftly judged performances at its centre , Jean Becker 's My Afternoons With Margueritte risks sentimentality , but maintains a sense of lightness that is its saving grace . Shades of his own Obelix screen persona colour Grard Depardieu 's performance as an illiterate handyman in this cosy but lightweight small-town tale . Perfectly pleasant , if mildly underwhelming French feel-gooder . 	It 's sentimental and treacly , but that 's not enough to prevent My Afternoons with Margueritte from being truly affecting .
dinner rush The first food movie to capture the joyful civilized mania of people who live not just to eat but to talk about eating . There are enough plots here to challenge a Robert Altman , specialist in interlocking stories , but the director , Bob Giraldi , masters the complexities as if he knows the territory . You keep waiting for that one scene or piece of dialogue that will get things going , and it never comes . You can almost smell the garlic and feel the heat of the range . It 's not Big Night , but there 's much worth tasting here . A marvelously nasty comedy . Fiery energy , swift , character-driven chitchat and a tough , upbeat sense of how the world works . This is an unusually patient and composed feature - it 's solidly scripted , it knows where it 's going and arrives there with a minimum of fuss . Benefits enormously from Aiello 's down-to-earth magnificence . The acting is brilliant . 	With the aid of a witty script and a well-acted ensemble , Dinner Rush is a tasty dish .
1095081-boiler room Boiler Room reflects the sensibility of the generation it holds up to critical scrutiny , and it 's a cunningly ambiguous act of self-portraiture . The film feels a little hung out to dry and , like its characters , lacking purpose and spending its wealth a little too loosely . A confident movie that tackles a worthwhile topic with insight and conviction . If I want to watch folks sit around and berate each other and dog women while making millions of dollars , I 'll watch WWF Vin Diesel , who plays senior broker Chris Varick , is a hulking actor with a menacing screen presence and a cavernous bass voice . Watch this guy , he 's going places . Who wants to be a millionaire ? Filmmaker Ben Younger makes not a single false move when delineating the merciless , high-testosterone world of boiler-room brokerages . This film ca n't overcome the unfavorable comparisons to that picture [ Wall Street ] from which it borrows far too heavily . An exhilarating ride ! It loses steam as plot distractions dilute the impact in the second half , but there 's still enough here to warrant attention . 	Its ending is disappointingly tidy , but Boiler Room boasts just enough sharp writing and brisk pacing to make getting there worthwhile .
looking for eric Capable of lifting even the stoniest heart . There 's no doubting that Looking for Eric is a lively piece of entertainment . It is always satisfying to see an arch-realist testing his certainties , even reaching from time to time , as Loach does here , into the joyfully fantastical . In Loach 's hands , it has a measure of dignity and it works beautifully . Beginning in grim kitchen-sink territory , the movie gets lighter and goofier as it goes , and if it 's a bit of a mess , it 's also a pick-me-up that suggests how hard and how rewarding it can be to set a life back on course . Ken Loach worms beneath sooty surroundings to examine the dreamy undercurrent of idealism that facilitates conflict in his Thatcher-ized milieu . The thoroughly charming , amusing and insightful Looking For Eric is a complete pleasure ... a Ken Loach film brimming with wit and wisdom , interspersed with classic archive moments of Cantona magic . Looking for Eric emerges as a portrait of a world and a way of life . At times it falls flat , or fails to rise . More often than not , though , it 's a heartbreaker . Ken Loach 's earthy gloom sees some sunshine for a change Looking For Eric is a great piece of feel-good British cinema . 	Ken Loach 's latest is an uplifting , entertaining and amusing socio-drama featuring a match-winning performance from Eric Cantona .
mountain-patrol-kekexili Breathtakingly beautiful , breathtakingly brutal and simply breathtaking . Mountain Patrol : Kekexili is sometimes slow going , yet it builds in power as nature begins to take its toll on the patrol , and its cumulative effects are haunting . Moby Dick with a progressive spin . An ode to the great sacrifices that often accompany the will to do the right thing . [ It 's ] austere , unsentimental , morally complex , and grimly realistic ... A fascinating oddity , marked by amazing locales and a narrative that continually subverts your expectations ... the effect is hypnotic . Never has a movie so soberingly made the fight to save life and the struggle to hold on to it seem so futile . The director 's strong , vigorous style suits the setting perfectly , making Mountain Patrol the closest thing to a Hollywood western in years . And as in the best westerns , the landscape assumes its own character in the story . This second film by Chinese director Lu Chuan is a solid and atmospheric drama . The film 's most memorable visual spectacle , of a man getting sucked into a pool of quicksand , is also the most resonant . Man may think he rules over nature , but it can take him back at any moment . 	In a setting both visually stunning and cruel , this Eastern film evokes the epic spirit of old-fashioned Westerns .
mortal kombat annihilation Quite serious , charmless and critic-proof . The script , by five writers , is a melange of role-playing games , Biblical references , mythology and martial-arts and other movie cliches ; it 's predictable when it 's not impenetrable . Fragmented and monotonous , without a semblance of the gymnastic cleverness that at least made the first Mortal Kombat film into watchable trash , Mortal Kombat Annihilation is as debased as movies come . Witless , charmless and clueless . It wastes no time getting to the punching , kicking , stomping and zapping that passes for a cinematic event . Pic consists largely of choppily edited fight scenes ( usually involving somersaults and back flips ) combined with various computer graphic effects . This is an example of a sequel just as terrible as the first movie : same stuff , different day . There is nothing ... I repeat , nothing worthwhile in this film . Plot , character , motivation , you ask ? C'mon ! Astonishing that they could do worse than Part 1 . Seriously . 	With its shallow characters , low budget special effects , and mindless fight scenes , Mortal Kombat - Annihilation offers minimal plot development and manages to underachieve the low bar set by its predecessor .
rendition A good film that 's at its best when it 's not talking so much . The movie is not exciting , original or instructive enough to justify the unpleasant experience . Wavers between tepid star turns and a Romeo and Juliet subplot involving an al Qaeda assassin and the daughter of the lead inquisitor -- a story that 's ridiculous even broken up and bookended as it is here , to give this flat movie a trick ending . Its clumsy efforts are toward an honest and difficult goal , which is to use the resources of mainstream movie-making to get viewers thinking about a moral crisis that many of us would prefer to ignore . Rendition gives its take on this practice with enough complexity to keep us engaged - and on the fence about how far our nation should go ... Hood 's greatest concern is the line between moral courage and cowardice . As Hollywood tries to make sense -- or at least drama -- from current events , it is inevitable that the early attempts will seem cardboardish and melodramatic . Rendition 's approach feels additionally preachy and one-noted because its message is bigger than both the story and the human element . Designed to make us feel like we 've just witnessed a powerful experience . The reality of the film is that it 's nothing but a shallow and underdeveloped position paper . Probes deep into a serious problem , and will entertain those who enjoy current events sprinkled over their cinema . 	The impressive cast can not rescue Rendition , which explores complex issues in woefully simplified terms .
love in the time of cholera A movie that is at times overly polite , unintentionally funny and too rarely transporting . Forget the heat of passion : The movie never breaks a sweat . Bardem 's hypnotic presence , like that of an Easter Island statue come to life , is one of the film 's many pleasures . As is its intimations of a love everlasting . The book is translated into film as a series of chronological events , and they are flat events at that . ... a campy mess that presumably has little in common with Mrquez 's acclaimed work . It makes us think about what we do for love and whether , in the end , our choices are worth it . ... sinks to the bottom like an overloaded steamboat . There is sweet whimsy here . 'Love in the Time of Cholera ' is breathtakingly filmed . It is an Oscar-worthy movie . [ Actress Mezzogiorno ] finds the story 's emotion by resisting the tug of the movie into grandeur . 	Though beautifully filmed , the makers of Love in the Time of Cholera fail to transfer the novel 's magic to the screen .
flushed away How this thing got made in Hollywood is a mystery , but I laughed at most of it , especially the mean stereotypes about the French and the even meaner stereotype about England 's soccer team . More concerned with character , well-timed sight and sound gags , and witty banter than it is with smooth plotting ... . [ but ] well-worth the plunge . Another clever work from the brilliant Aardman factory . It 's an interesting approach to bridging two very different disciplines -- it 's just a pity they did n't find a better script to try it out on . ... the story and characters remain unengaging . The short attention spans of directors David Bowers and Sam Fell are mostly forgivable because the movie is filled with so many entertaining characters . Flushed Away will make you excited about animated movies again . It shows you can still do something with heart and soul even though everyone else is trying to cash in . Most of the fun is in the deft characterizations , the zippy banter , and the joyous sight gags A perfect kind of cute . Settles for a more modest level than Aardman 's previous efforts . Strong on visual invention and wacky humor but light on story and characterization , it 's about on the level of a Blue Sky feature , in particular recalling Robots . 	Clever and appealing for both children and adults , Flushed Away marks a successful entry into digital animated features for Aardman Animations .
the art of getting by ... a limp , lifeless and rote retread , utterly unconvincing in most of its New York details and so overly familiar it might as well have been titled 'Tadpole Goes Down an Infinite Playlist ' A spunky coming-of-age drama that reveals that this transitional stage of life is not a solo act but a communal one requiring the encouragement and support of many different people . [ VIDEO ] In spite of its many clichd flaws `` The Art of Getting By '' does nail the aloof quality of entitled teens who posture at maturity without doing the dirty work of growing up . Writer-director Gavin Wiesen piles on the coming-of-age clichs , and it does n't help that his leading character has oddly middle-aged tastes . There 's an inherent lack of dramatic thrust here . If George ca n't even admit he 's in love , I 'm not going to wait around for him to figure it out . Unlike most recent coming-of-age movies , this one gets by on more than capricious eccentricity and sentimentality . It has something called heart . Not funny , quirky , or particularly insightful . There 's little art in it , and it does n't get by . Hollow and pretentious . Ugh ! For a movie devoted to an alleged geek-rebel underdog , this coming-of-age flick could n't be more conformist ... 	A sitcom-level twee mess that bakes in the typical manic pixie dream girl and boring , withdrawn boy hero .
original kings of comedy Little of the material feels distinctive , fresh , or insightful -- let alone edgy . Seeing the film in a crowded theater is a lot more fun than watching it on TV would be , and the crappy , grainy look does create a sort of you-are-there immediacy . The four share a wondrous camaraderie and Lee just lets the camera roll on them as they improvise on a basketball court and break each other up . Some segments are marred by poor sound quality . Others produce monster laughs . A small segment on the 'old tunes ' being all about 'love ' gives the entire piece an overall warm heart . Is it funny ? Sure -- although not as funny as the comics themselves seem to think it is . The Original Kings of Comedy , with its 10 cameras and backstage footage , may be the most innovatively directed stand-up concert film ever made . This is comedy with a sense of showmanship , and Lee cuts shrewdly to the rhythm of the jokes . Shrewdly executed , often hysterical . They did have some jokes . 	If you want lots of laughs and do n't mind some profanity , The Original Kings of Comedy can deliver .
trainwreck Romantic comedies can go in all sorts of directions , but they depend on the audience 's believing that a couple should get together and stay together . But in `` Trainwreck , '' that belief is hard to come by . Succeeds for large chunks of time ( mostly during its first hour ) , until it succumbs to the weaknesses of director Judd Apatow . If you 're not someone who is automatically shocked or in awe of the notion of a vulgar , profane , and sexually laced comedy that happens to have a female lead , then Trainwreck is going to feel a lot less transgressive and a lot more formulaic . What she has most is genuineness . She looks and acts like a real woman . There 's no glamour and no airs . Just Schumer , warts and all . And she 's wonderful . I suppose they called the movie Trainwreck because Smart , Heartfelt Comedy That 's Progressive About Sex and Still Funny did n't fit on the poster . The laughs here are plentiful , largely from Schumer , although she spreads the wealth quite a bit , to a cast that goes 30 or 40 deep Trainwreck is funny , emotional and honest , which is everything we ask our mainstream comedies to be - yet this is the first one to deliver the total package in a very long time . The pacing of Trainwreck does seem to lag , but that 's mostly because Schumer is just so efficient at destroying you in concentrated doses ... Despite its formulaic underpinnings , Schumer makes it feel fresh with her comic writing , her comic timing and her ability to make us care for her trainwreck of a character . Looney and hilarious , Trainwreck thrusts you deeper Inside Amy Schumer . 	Trainwreck drags commitment out of all but the most rom-com-phobic filmgoers with sharp humor , relatable characters , and hilarious work from Amy Schumer .
the-loved-ones-2009 There is clearly a lot of ambition to The Loved Ones and the near-brilliant leading performances help make the film a unique and terrifying experience . The savagery here has no redeeming social value and the characters are not especially interesting , but who cares when the terror is this relentless ? Edible roadkill , Frontal lobotomies , teenage psychopaths and Kasey Chambers music ... .Precisely what every school dance should feature , right ? A surprising , fast , stylised Aussie torture porn . Those with a fondness for cinematic evildoing might find themselves richly entertained by this macabre feature , which somehow manages the finer points of grief and festering wounds with exceptional directorial skill . Moviegoers with an aversion to violence will stay away , but genre buffs with a taste for the extreme should ensure healthy ticket sales . You will gasp in horror at the prospect of what is about to happen and then you will giggle in delight that the film actually carries out what it threatens to . Grueling in the best possible way , this is easily the best Australian horror film since Wolf Creek . I kinda dug the flick . Sean Byrne endows his rote slasher material with the kind of blackly comic wit and levity that virtually guarantee its entry into the contemporary midnight-movie canon . There 's enough genuine tension and imagination to provide some shocks and visceral chills . 	Successfully mixing the conventions of the teen and horror genres with a twist , Australian director Sean Byrne makes a striking directorial debut .
atl Do n't expect to see it as a featured film on NBC or even HBO . Maybe it 's got a shot at late-night BET . If this had gone straight to DVD , that would have been A-OK. RIP , `` ATL . '' As clich ? mount , realism and make-believe jostle against one another more discordantly . Before its predictable third-act resolutions , ATL presents a rich urban tableau . `` ATL '' does n't explore any new ground in the genre of black teen disillusionment but this is an affecting urban cautionary tale that sparkles in its own self-reflection . Here 's the kind of movie that filmmakers should develop more often : It 's an urban movie about teen-agers FOR teen-agers . And I hope that teen-agers and adults from all walks of life see `` ATL , '' because it 's both gritty and good-hearted . A mellow and engrossing coming-of-age film about a young crew on the south side of Atlanta . No , ATL is n't a drug movie , and it does n't send its characters on a harrowing journey into danger . It 's a film about growing up and working , about falling in love , about planning for your future , and about the importance of friends . Director Chris Robinson maintains a light touch , giving the colorful , energetic skating scenes the benefit of his music-video roots , but he does n't neglect character , drawing sincere performances from his young cast . ATL fails to find the right middle ground between its competing dramatic and comic elements . A well-meaning and good-hearted urban melodrama -- that does n't really seem to have anything new to say . 	Strong lead performances and catchy musical interludes rescue this coming-of-age story from its formulaic script and uneven direction .
1175174-funny games Performances are stellar . The only real torture here is the one Haneke inflicts on the audience . We 're left with the nasty taste of our own bloodlust long after the credits have rolled . Are you complicit for watching the stuff ? Would you be less of a jerk if you walked out ? Is [ Haneke ] wallowing in the thing he 's critiquing and consequently a bigger jerk ? Whether it 's the original or the replica , this is a film that is impossible to enjoy and difficult to forget . Haneke is a hypocrite who wants to censure anyone who likes fictionalized cruelty but nonetheless takes great pleasure in punishing his innocent upper-class protagonists In Funny Games , Haneke seems content to ram his thumbs into our eyes and then ask us why we were foolish enough to get within arm 's length of his gray , grizzled visage . more than the sum of its facile narrative parts . This is cinematic gamesmanship that is simultaneously brutal , bizarre and elegant in its audacity . Director Haneke has artistically exploited cinematic structure to play with and engage the mind . It 's a very funny game indeed . A gripping tale that peaks and loses its grip . 	Though made with great skill , Funny Games is nevertheless a sadistic exercise in chastising the audience .
1006527-elephant man Hopkins ' performance is the performance in the film . The greatest contribution -- apart from the central performances -- comes from Francis , whose wonderful black and white , widescreen photography lends atmosphere and clarity to the proceedings . Perhaps Lynch 's finest moment -- Both disturbingly odd and surprisingly humane . David Lynch does a neat turn with a straight drama . This black-and-white film already includes several Lyncian benchmarks : hissing noises , nightmare sequences , and moments of deadly quiet . Lynch shows a weakness in this film that is n't present in just about any of his others : Sentimentality . This very interesting and moving film challenges us to examine the complex nuances of benevolence and the potential of the human spirit to transcend genetic impairments . What we eventually see underneath this shell is not 'the study in dignity ' that Ashley Montagu wrote about , but something far more poignant , a study in genteelness that somehow suppressed all rage . The playing is finely judged , the black-and-white cinematography is effective and the whole thing manages to be truly moving in a way that overcomes all the `` I am not an animal ! '' schmaltz . Spectacular 	David Lynch 's relatively straight second feature finds an admirable synthesis of compassion and restraint in treating its subject , and features outstanding performances by John Hurt and Anthony Hopkins .
hobo with a shotgun This is a gloriously OTT , gore-filled riot . A non-stop , over-the-top , intentionally ridiculous smorgasbord of violence and bloodshed that ceases being disturbing and just becomes pure , 100 % fun . Even connoisseurs of the genre ( and I confess , I 'm not one ) will find the cheesy chopfests and gratuitous gore less than exciting as one urban prosthetics-strewn bloodbath begets the next . It 's a grindhouse mess but it stars Rutger Hauer ! This is the type of movie you want to punch in the face . For those who can stomach ever-escalating scenes of brutality , generous amounts of B-movie gore and a story with dialogue that is sometimes dumbfounding , `` Hobo '' is a hero . Never mind 'Machete , ' Hobo with a Shotgun is the real heir to the Grindhouse glory daze . It 's all in good fun and sometimes a little clever ; `` Hobo '' shoots low and scores an explosive spray of guts , if not glory . Like most of its kind , it 's just so bad it 's bad . Belongs at the bottom of a disused coal mine in one of those desperately impoverished West Virginia townships that advertise for people to send them their nuclear waste . 	It certainly is n't subtle -- or even terribly smart -- but as a gleefully gory homage to low-budget exploitation thrillers , Hobo with a Shotgun packs plenty of firepower .
coherence 2013 It 's best not to know too much more going in , but suffice it to say Byrkit 's parable about choices and how they make us who we are has an eerie potency . An ambitious physics and time-bending , relationship drama with solid performances from the two main characters . With a small cast , largely one-location setting and virtually no special effects , it 's a triumph of low-budget filmmaking that gets your heart racing -- and your brain , too . An uncommonly clever genre movie , reliant not on special effects-of which there are basically none-but on heavy doses of paranoia . By presenting its ideas in a well-structured , appealingly fleshed-out fashion it lives up to its name in more ways than one . The film generates fear and mistrust with very little in the way of effects , gore or outright scares . Weird and Weirder Coherence is , at times , somewhat incoherent , but always on the right side of farcicality . The result is a low-key mind-bender that feels half-scripted , half improvised , and -- for the most part -- rather surprisingly compelling . The larger questions Coherence asks us to consider about parallel worlds are interesting , if not exactly original , while absurdist touches help elevate it from more traditional thrillers . 	A case study in less-is-more filmmaking , Coherence serves as a compelling low-budget calling card for debuting writer-director James Ward Byrkit .
shape of things Little more than a clever undergrad thesis gone awfully wrong , it turns on the less than shocking proposition that women are as unlikable as men . LaBute 's observations about our self-destructive obsession with appearances may not be original , but his ability to create articulate , provocative characters is . Brutal , sexy and astonishingly acted . Anchored by two great leads and full of interesting , deeply debatable ideas , Shape still feels stagey and boxed in -- like a brilliantly unknowable friend existing in a world not your own . The shape of this thing is warped . It 's a four-character play masquerading as a movie . Neil LaBute is back to his old self , and the cinematic world is a better place for it . I do n't know that I think it 's an entirely honest work , but one aspect of it is so universal that it 's honest enough to be uncomfortable . There was too much of the neurotic artist in the prose to speak for all art . After the muted and sometimes muddle-headed Possession , writer-director Neal LaBute revisits material he knows better than anyone -- the theater of cruelty that relationships between men and women can be . ( LaBute ) has n't augment the characters and settings with the additional depth and definition necessary to flesh out a stage production for the screen . 	LaBute returns to his earlier themes of cruelty in relationships , and the results hit hard .
sex lies and videotape A movie of prodigious power and feeling that is also high-spirited , hilarious and scorchingly erotic . A mature , beautifully acted and deeply sexy film . I was somewhat let down by the film as a whole , which seems to feign more than it actually achieves . It is never boring , and there are moments when it reminds us of how sexy the movies used to be , back in the days when speech was an erogenous zone . Having a conversation about masturbation is as natural as talking about the weather . Circles around the ever shifting pattern of contemporary sexual politics , shedding light on both the fears and desires of men and women . By all means , an interesting ninety minutes , just not a great ninety . He creates not so much characters we have some feeling for as a set of walking case histories that are intriguing without being appealing . A landmark film in indie history , and it 's just a great film to watch . a thoughtful and absorbing portrait of unconventional human relationships 	In his feature directorial debut , Steven Soderbergh demonstrates a mastery of his craft well beyond his years , pulling together an outstanding cast and an intelligent script for a nuanced , mature film about neurosis and human sexuality .
shes the man Once again , Hollywood makes the mistaken assumption that cribbing Shakespearean plots and dumping the poetry will somehow download the Bard 's brilliance . She 's the Man is cleverer than the average teen movie , but it gets so wrapped up in plot mechanics that it loses the characters You do n't have to know Twelfth Night to have fun at She 's the Man . But brushing up on your Shakespeare can be good for a few inside chuckles . More often than not it 's the slapstick elements , predictably occasioned by gender confusion , that get the laughs . Obvious and cute in the way of so many teen comedies , but it 's brighter and quicker on its feet than most . For Bynes , it 's a chance to show a bit of range ... However , if you 're not a casting agent or a teenager , you might want to pick another movie instead . She 's the Man fails to exploit the myriad comedic possibilities , settling instead for broad , unconvincing slapstick aimed at 12-year-olds and gags Shakespeare would have rejected as ancient . Amidst all the gender-bending farce , the movie has a smart absurdist streak that allows for smaller giggles in the corners . Is being a Paul Walker protg really all that desirable ? Got ta love how Amanda Bynes will always rather get laughs than just look pretty . 	Shakespeare 's wit gets lost in translation with She 's the Man 's broad slapstick , predictable jokes , and unconvincing plotline .
girlhood 2015 [ From ] urgent , fast-moving cinematography , intense close-ups . . . and percussive soundtrack . . . to cautionary tale of the limits of being a young black female in France . A sequel , please . Writer-director Cline Sciamma expertly places her characters in that nebulous region between child and adult . Very good , very punchy social drama from France about Marieme ( Karidja Toure ) , a prospectless , poverty-stricken black French teenage girl who succumbs to the ego-boosting allure of being in a gang . The movie captures that heady adolescent sense of time stopping and the moment mattering while standing far enough back to let us acknowledge all the pitfalls Marieme is moving too fast to see . `` Girlhood '' is a mesmerizing exercise in the enlightenment that can happen when a filmmaker shifts the male cinematic gaze ever so slightly and uncovers what looks like a whole new world . While `` Girlhood '' is sad and wrenching , it does n't feel like a misery-mongering expression of high-minded ( and therefore condescending ) concern . It 's great to see a gritty girl-gang story that 's not a fingerwagging cautionary tale , or a grrrlpower fantasy . A bracingly fresh approach to the coming-of-age genre , this French drama gives remarkable insight into its central character through detailed observation ... A powerful and entertaining film about a gang of girls , and what friendship means , the protection it provides . 	Powerfully acted and smartly scripted , Girlhood offers a fresh perspective on familiar cinematic territory .
tmnt 2007 Works better , looks smarter , and packs in more realistic drama than many of its live-action genre counterparts . Whenever the amphibians are in action , the film finds a rhythm that mixes punk graphic cool and merch-friendly visuals . Strictly generic junk that could very well deaden the brain cells of children everywhere . It 's good for kids and existing Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles fans . The movie will please those who it was meant to please . The long-delayed return of our Heroes in a Half Shell is big on style but low in substance . The unexpectedly rich art direction gives the violence more impact than was ever possible in the TV series . Words can not easily express how profoundly unrewarding it is to revisit the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles . Munroe 's TMNT fails to properly ignite this glorified video game into the pop cultural diversion it was during the very first Bush administration . TMNT is a fun , action-filled adventure that will satisfy longtime fans and generate a legion of new ones . Cool CGI represents a substantial improvement over their earlier incarnations ' relatively lame action sequences . 	TMNT 's art direction is splendid , but the plot is non-existent and the dialogue lacks the irony and goofy wit of the earlier TMNT movies .
the second mother The main source of power in `` The Second Mother '' is found in effortless skips between character study , family drama , and silent socioeconomic warfare . The final result is a gleaming cinematic treasure as heartwarming as the film 's final reassuring smile . Anna Muylaert 's close setting cleverly lends itself to broader reflections on tradition , but Cas makes the story sing . Utterly convincing . The picture really belongs to the fantastic Regina Cas , who finds the humanity in her put-upon character even as she 's giving terrible advice to her daughter . Sharply observant and always surprising ; mixes dry humor , aching drama , and stinging social commentary in its clashes between classes and generations . The characters ' pigeonholed social roles display Muylaert 's intentions from the start and render the drama superfluous . Ms. Muylaert 's guiding principle seems to have been fearlessness , and her film , which was shot by Barbara Alvarez , is superb on all counts . It is socio-economic warfare beautifully written and it is socioeconomic warfare exquisitely performed and it is socioeconomic warfare undertaken with humour and heart , and if you 're still not sold , more fool you . It 's always presumptuous to suggest that a filmmaker does n't realize where her narrative 's attention should be directed , yet it 's hard not to wonder if writer/director Anna Muyleart picked the right protagonist . Largely adhering to a spare aesthetic of wide shots and few cuts , Muylaert fashions The Second Mother into a low-key comedy of manners , emphasizing class difference through careful attention to behaviour , objects and architecture . The characters are so accustomed to keeping up appearances that they ca n't bring themselves to say what 's bugging them . Their interactions may be mild , but the claustrophobic imagery creates the sense of being trapped in a powder keg . 	The Second Mother 's compelling characters serve an artfully drawn , thought-provoking story that 's beautifully brought to life by a talented cast .
full frontal If Soderbergh 's name were n't attached to this project , I 'd swear it was by some recent film-school grad who had n't progressed beyond Navel Gazing 101 . Despite the complicated trappings -- a film within a film within a film , shot both on film and video -- Full Frontal is mostly a pedestrian look at sex , race , and desperation in the movie business . An impenetrable and insufferable ball of pseudo-philosophic twaddle . I sort of enjoyed it , but the movie plays amateurish and does n't tell us anything new . Cineasts will revel in those visual in-jokes , as in the film 's verbal pokes at everything from the likes of Miramax chief Harvey Weinstein 's bluff personal style to the stylistic rigors of Denmark 's Dogma movement . Unlike Magnolia or Mulholland Drive , it does n't offer an audience much incentive to tease out its ambiguities . will be far more interesting to the Soderbergh faithful than it will be to the casual moviegoer who might be lured in by Julia Roberts ... Full Frontal is the antidote for Soderbergh fans who think he 's gone too commercial since his two Oscar nominated films in 2000 The screenplay by Coleman Hough has an equal mix of humor and humanity as it circles around the busy lives of seven people searching for intimate relationships . One of the worst movies of the year . ... Watching it was painful . 	An confusing movie made worse by the poor camera work .
300 300 , even with its impressive vistas of computer-generated soldiers , is just a throwaway epic . One of the casualties of all this digital-effects wizardry is a sense of emotional immediacy . There 's a conspicuously remote quality to much of the movie that drains the film of the visceral energy it so desperately needs to make an impact . It helps nothing that the movie is also so very , very hilarious . Deliciously , gloriously , unintentionally hilarious . A muscle-magazine fantasy crossed with a video game and an Army recruiting film . For once , the Larry King quote machines who supply the advance blurbs to the studio for their marketing campaigns will be correct . Apart from its pro-war propaganda , that comes in the form of unrelenting voice-over narration , `` 300 '' is a dog of a movie where cookie-cutter CGI battle scenes show thirty actors pretending to fight to the death . 300 is just a silly , yet melodramatic , cliched , comic-book version of Gladiator with Frank Miller art direction . I still wish David Wenham were n't the narrator , but everything else about the movie is a brutal kind of hypnotic that keeps me coming back . If anyone wanted to persuade vulnerable young minds to enter the maw of battle , 300 would make a heck of a recruitment video . Instead of `` Prepare for Glory ! '' it should be `` Prepare for Gory ! '' It 's a vividly stylized , spectacular , uber-violent video game . 	A simple-minded but visually exciting experience , full of blood , violence , and ready-made movie quotes .
raising helen Faced with the constraints of not one but two heavily formulaic genres , Raising Helen simply feels too much like a template and not enough like a story . The adorable Hudson 's onscreen transformation from party girl to supermom seems forced , and Marshall 's efforts to pass her off as the next Julia Roberts-style every girl are irritating . The characters are all enjoyable , which is Marshall 's goal . A sort of updated Pretty Woman into homework rather than hooking . It is n't great , but , with Kate Hudson , it 's cute enough . Yet another social fable about women in distress from Gary Marshall with no foundation in any reality and a mannered , irritating performance from Kate Hudson . A winsomely formulaic domestic comedy that says that women can have it all -- but they really should n't try to . At two hours , Raising Helen feels like it 's never going to end , and , when the obligatory all-is-forgiven finale finally arrives , it 's a welcome relief . When the 9-year-old in the next seat can anticipate every plot development and emotional response , you know you 're in sitcom land . Rich with clichs , predictability , and happily ever afters , the story never ever leaves its comfort zone to challenge the characters and their relationships , to create tension or conflict , or to throw in the proverbial plot twist . 	As shallow and formulaic as a sitcom .
akira Still one of the best techno science fiction thrillers of all time The most expensive animated feature ever made in Japan ... and it 's easily the most impressive , as well . It still stands as an orgy of the ocular senses , and a brain-twisting cyberpunk epic . A lavish animation extravaganza produced at a cost of $ 8 million , this futuristic exploration is a followup by author-director Katsuhiro Otomo to his tremendously popular comic books . Akira still holds up with the best of them - its animation frees movement in a way that can not be replicated in live action movies . [ Akira ] is a blast and a half , a twisted dystopian parable of violence and rock and roll , Japanese-style . It 's Disney on PCP , mean , rotten , psychotic , but incredibly vivid . The cityscapes are awesome , the camerawork is dizzying . If you 're new to manga , prepare to be converted . Plenty of superb recent blockbusters , including The Matrix , The Dark Knight , Minority Report , Dark City and Inception , are all in its debt - not to mention a fair number of shockers , like Star Wars Episode II and the most recent Resident Evil atrocity . Sure , computers are fine for flatulent ogres and dark-haired cyber-honeys , but no single work has been strong or thrilling enough to better Akira . Almost too much of a good thing 	Akira is distractingly bloody and violent , but its phenomenal animation and sheer kinetic energy helped set the standard for modern anime .
armored Alas , Armored is one predictable and forgettable movie that should consider itself very lucky not to have gone straight to DVD . Imagine Reservoir Dogs , re-cut as a completely linear film , then stripped of its snappy dialogue , innovative shot design and compelling characters . None of the plan details so essential to a tense heist drama are given to us ; the gang 's individual characterisations get lost , and the movie gets boringly marooned in a Reservoir Dogsish abandoned stockyard . Disappointing . Somehow securing cinematic distribution when its script , plot and execution scream straight-to-DVD , Armoured is the worst kind of B-movie : a dull one . The internecine calamity that ensues is nicely paced by Nimrd Antal - great name- and played with full-grimace intensity by Laurence Fishburne , Jean Reno , Skeet Ulrich and , the single phoner in the performances , Fred Ward . A safe bet for a DVD night . Antal is never much beyond serviceable here , but he does make a chase-duel between two entirely identical armored cars almost decipherable , which is no mean feat . Features Antal 's characteristic emphasis on his characters rather than the situations into which they 're thrust . Has a pleasingly gritty feel thanks to its use of chilly , metallic urban locations -- and at only 88 minutes , it 's a very streamlined , no-nonsense genre film . An underwhelming heist-gone-wrong movie that , inexplicably , has avoided going straight to DVD . Despite reliable work from Dillon and Fishburne , Armored is something of a disappointment , thanks to a dull script and a lacklustre leading performance from Short . 	This B-grade thriller has a good cast and director but is undone by plot holes and messy conclusion .
signs [ Shyamalan 's ] treatment does n't always make perfect sense , but what his film lacks in logic is more than made up for in atmosphere . It 's a much more emotional journey than what Shyamalan has given us in his past two movies , and Gibson , stepping in for Bruce Willis , is the perfect actor to take us on the trip . Shyamalan is still one of the most consistently entertaining filmmakers working today , and all signs point to the most unique alien invasion movie to come along in years . Brooding , gripping movie that held a recent preview audience in such rapt attention , you could n't hear a single candy wrapper crinkle . It 's a smart , skillful movie from a writer-director who 's only 31 years old , but already a master of blending the chills of fright with the warmth of love . The soul-searching deliberateness of the film , although leavened nicely with dry absurdist wit , eventually becomes too heavy for the plot . Os problemas tm incio a partir do momento em que samos do cinema e comeamos a pensar sobre o que acabamos de ver . ento que Sinais realmente desaponta . I could n't help but think if Shyamalan would n't have had a better movie if he 'd stuck with former star Willis A smart reinterpretation of yet another urban legend with a Shyamalan twist and nearly timeless quality , `` Signs '' is an instant classic . [ Shyamalan 's ] a skilled flashlight-guy , and movie theaters are his campfires . 	With Signs , Shyamalan proves once again an expert at building suspense and giving audiences the chills .
the cuckoo 2003 A mystical fairy tale by Alexander Rogozhkin as beautiful as it is tender . Thoughtful , well-acted comedy . The Russians are still burying World War II , which seems to have been almost a bigger event for them than communism . One of the interesting burial details is The Cuckoo . An incredibly brilliant piece of minimalist drama . A gently funny mini-epic whose 'make love not war ' message is delivered in three languages at once . Rogozhkin makes nearly all of his points with surprising subtlety . ... the Bergman-like surrealistic climax goes on far too long and actually jolts your attention away from the quite charming and moving story that preceded it . Humanistic without being preachy or blinded by optimism about human nature . The movie is informed by a rather gaga and , given the historical context , intellectually lazy pacifism , but Rogozhkin 's painterly visual flair and his conciliatory humanism ultimately beguile and console . The movie lost me in an extended dream sequence , set in the afterlife . 	A sweet and amusing comedy .
encino man High-Spirited , no-holds barred fun . If you liked Bill & Ted 's Excellent Adventure and the Wayne 's World flicks , you should get guilty pleasure out of it . Pauly Shore 's finest hour . Low-budget quickie is insulting even within its own no-effort parameters . I found myself missing Jeff Spicoli . Depressingly witless . ... and introducing Pauly Shore . The kind of movie that gives evolution a bad name . Encino Man is frighteningly dated , but it was never made to be timeless . I just wish the picture had more laughs or instinctive madness . There is no excuse 	Encino Man is n't the first unabashedly silly comedy to embrace its stupidity and amass a cult following , but whether or not it works for you will largely be determined by your tolerance for Pauly Shore .
a band called death 2013 A band call Death comes back to live in this hilarious and poignant peon to hard rock with a soft heart . Directors Mark Christopher Covino and Jeff Howlett tell this part of A Band Called Death without much artifice , relying on the natural charm and sunny dispositions of the surviving Hackney brothers to draw us in . Takes its time getting there , but when it hit , it packed an emotional punch that knocked me on my ass so hard I left a skid mark on the floor . Questions about what that reputation is worth today , and how the Hackney brothers struggled to find a foothold , give filmmakers Mark Covino and Jeff Howlett plenty of material to work with . Determined and persuasive filmmaking pays off with a moving and remarkable true-life account of groundbreaking musicianship . If ever a movie about punk deserved to be called legitimately sweet and life-affirming , it 's the documentary `` A Band Called Death . '' More than anything else , the movie is about family -- how we support them and they support us , what we sacrifice for them , how they inspire us and hold us back , what we tell them and what we leave out . A Band Called Death is a film that is all heart , as was the band it looks to explore . The film is nothing much cinematically , and some of the narrative details and circumstances seemed fudged . But it 's a great story , told with a fan 's honest appreciation . Death lives ! 	A Band Called Death is not only a fascinating portrait of a pioneering rock group , but also a tribute to family ties and perseverance in the face of hardship .
protector Scene after scene is fashioned together in the most confusing ( read that as meaning 'dull ' ) fashion , like a 500-piece jigsaw puzzle missing half the pieces . The Protector 's plot is as sturdy as a piece of balsa wood , which would n't have mattered so much if the film had showcased Jaa 's talents better . With obvious international marketing pressure to make his next movie , y'know , a little less Thai , director Prachya Pinkaew has followed up his brilliant Ong Bak with an ineptly edited , badly scripted and atrociously dubbed pudding . As a breathtaking follow-up to 2003 's Ong-Bak : Thai Warrior , it 's a whole lotta fun . If a video game allowed you to do what Tony Jaa does , it would be the bestselling video game in history . The Protector is ridiculously fun to watch . The premise is both absurd and intricate . If you like you martial arts action tough , gritty and fast , Tony Jaa is your artist , as he proved on his debut with Ong Bak ( 2003 ) . This is Muay Thai , a form of aggressive martial arts that makes the others look tame . a no-brainer , but also an extravaganza of inventive , visually stunning brutality ( by the trunkload ) . The Protector is a disaster , barely made viewable by Tony Jaa 's incredible physical abilities , often trapped inside sh***y fight choreography anyway . 	Despite some impressive fight scenes , this trimmed-down version of the Thai action pic is an off-putting mix of scant plot , choppy editing , and confusing subtitles and dubbing .
tokyo story constantly bursts with life and meaning , despite the fact that very little happens in the conventional narrative sense Rife with a pervasive sense of loss , Tokyo story offers little comfort and promises great sorrow . This is a profoundly moving film . It 's entirely possible that Tokyo Story is n't the best movie ever made . But I suspect that it might be the most perfect . The way Ozu builds up emotional empathy for a sense of disappointment in its various characters is where his mastery lies . The film is full of feelings , all understated , all with the tenor of universal truth . Newcomers to Ozu must be prepared for a rigidly controlled work with no mobile-camera shots . This style elegantly frames the delicate performances , which in turn do justice to the wisdom and compassion of Ozu 's view of life . Ozu has made a film as simple in form and complex in nature as life itself . Here , every viewer is cast as a tourist , and yet will feel right at home . [ VIDEO ESSAY ] Yasujir Ozu 's beloved masterpiece of postwar Japanese cinema speaks to audiences from all backgrounds because of the cross-generational familial truths that the prolific director/co-writer lovingly metes out . Ozu 's long shots , knee-high camera placement , and collapsed perspective -- as gorgeous and unsettling as a Czanne -- gather power over the duration , but time itself is the master 's most potent weapon . like people-watching from the point of view of a god 	Tokyo Story is a Yasujiro Ozu masterpiece whose rewarding complexity has lost none of its power more than half a century on .
god grew tired of us [ An ] affecting and engaging film . It 's an uplifting last act , though not one that comes with solutions to an Africa that seems to cough up one genocide after another . Personal redemption and hope are n't a cure-all , but they do shine a light in the darkness . The movie manages to be an elegantly rendered portrait of the refugees ' uneasy , but dogged engagement of American possibility , braced by an equally dogged plea to acknowledge the horrible conflict that still keeps them from returning home . [ A ] simple and direct documentary . Too often with documentaries , we get only the tears . There is no second act or resolution . Christopher Quinn 's God Grew Tired of Us gives us reason to hope about a human catastrophe . God Grew Tired of Us adopts a low-key observational style that takes us through the protagonists ' adventures from their point of view , though the filmmakers ca n't help registering locals ' amazed reactions to their new neighbors . Satisfying enough to demonstrate that some stories deserve to be told more than once . The sobering portrait is a rather conventional production that moves on to the next bullet point with an efficiency in place of exploration . It deflates upon arriving in the vast , familiar blandness we know as America . It is a story worth telling over and over . 	Not just a powerful telling of the journey of exiled Sudanese boys , God Grew Tired of Us is also a poignant account of the determination of the human spirit .
sukiyaki western django Sukiyaki Western Django is a blood-drenched , dynamite , often hilarious and uniquely weird big-screen entertainment . The widescreen framing and saturated color make this one of Miike 's most visually impressive features . ... for all its virtues , Sukiyaki Western Django is a one-gimmick film that eventually wears out its welcome . Yes , it 's completely bonkers but that 's what makes it so great . Though Miike is a visually accomplished filmmaker capable of staging simultaneous action on more than one visual plane , his knack for aesthetic inventiveness only surfaces in occasional moments of inspiration . ... oppressive and tedious and interminable . Miike surprises for all the wrong reasons . a western/samurai monstrosity consuming itself Cult favorite Takashi Miike turns to the spaghetti Western for 'Sukiyaki Western Django , ' a seriocomic genre homage-spoof . A loving and lurid pastiche of the spaghetti westerns that were themselves lurid pastiches of classic Hollywood cowboy pictures . 	Inventive and off-kilter , the newest feast from J-Horror director Takashi Miike is super-sensory , self-referential and somewhat excessive .
merci pour le chocolat Suspend your disbelief here and now , or you 'll be shaking your head all the way to the credits . A non-mystery mystery . French cinema 's definitive Comeback Kid has done it again . Isabelle Huppert excels as the enigmatic Mika and Anna Mouglalis is a stunning new young talent in one of Chabrol 's most intense psychological mysteries . Like being invited to a classy dinner soiree and not knowing anyone . You leave the same way you came -- a few tasty morsels under your belt , but no new friends . Merci pour le movie . A fascinating piece ... assured and frequently witty . Huppert , for her part , is magnificent , an enigmatic echo of her twisted musician in Michael Haneke 's horribly grandiloquent The Piano Teacher . The twists and turns of `` Merci Pour le Chocolat '' are a delight to watch . A gripping chamber thriller ... 	Boasting a masterful performance by Huppert , Merci Pour Le Chocolat is a suspenseful psychological thriller .
raising victor vargas A coming-of-age story in which tenderness is silent but runs deep . Raising Victor Vargas displays a sweet intelligence . It has a gritty charm about itself . The movie 's greatest asset is its naturalism : The actors , none of them professionals , slip into these roles so effortlessly , it 's easy to forget they 're working from a script ... A delightful example of what happens when a rather slight story is handled with passion , humor and care . Sollett reminds you of what it is like to be 16 . Captures the awkwardness of adolescence like few films have . Real , sweet and often really sweet . Raising Victor Vargas gets everything just right . What 's so wonderful about director Peter Sollett 's assured debut feature is the authentic way he captures what it 's like to be young . [ `` Raising Victor Vargas '' ] is such a well crafted , good hearted teen romance I hope it gets deserved life in the after market . 	A coming-of-age tale marked by its authenticity .
three men and a baby The three lead performances , Selleck 's especially , are wonderfully self-effacing . Based on the French film , Three Men and a Cradle , this is acceptable comedy , but cinema it is not . It is shamelessly sentimental , and could well send the hardboiled home to kick the cat . Coasts on the charisma of its three stars . Saccharine feel-good mainstream comedy geared to the Lowest Common Denominator . As a sometime actor , Nimoy understands how to get good performances from the members of his cast . The movie never steps wrong as long as it focuses on the developing love between the two big men and the tiny baby . Let me just put it this way : if you 've ever had a baby , spent time with a baby , or been within 20 yards of a baby , you know why this is funny . The film works well despite its predictability , perhaps because of it . Funny , dated sexist comedy 	The American remake of the popular French comedy mostly works a charm under the combined talents of the three leads , who play nicely against type -- although forced plot elements and sentimentality at times dampen the fun .
todo sobre mi madre 1999 Almodvar gives you a personal cinema that has freed itself from whatever was mere personality . Pedro Almodvar 's best film to date , a heart-breaking paean to femininity , the maternal instinct and the thirst for drama . Funny , provocative and deeply sympathetic in its wide embrace of women and those who would be women , All About My Mother is a beacon of a film . An over-the-top collection of outrageous characters in improbable circumstances that all manage to interconnect , forming a film of incredible power , humor and finally beauty . The filmmaker peppers the movie with stylistic references to the women-loving films of directors George Cukor and Douglas Sirk and pays tribute to Williams ' greatest character , the tragic Blanche Dubois of A Streetcar Named Desire . Incredibly interesting film to watch . A powerful film of 4 women 's experiences and friendships together . Almodovar does a remarkable job of running all kinds of threads through All About My Mother , tugging on each one before he methodically ties them up . Hits a number of the right emotional buttons , due in large part to Roth 's extraordinary performance . Often deeply ludicrous , it 's just as often deeply moving . 	Almodovar weaves together a magnificent tapestry of femininity with an affectionate wink to classics of theater and cinema in this poignant story of love , loss and compassion .
the-warriors-way 'The Warrior 's Way ' is one hot mess of a movie . It has the best cinematography of the year , hands down . It has ninjas , clowns and cowboys doing battle . Weak acting , unfocused directing and an overall very phoney feeling make for a film that is seriously misguided . `` That was completely retarded , and I would absolutely watch it again . '' Indeed . My three-word synopsis is my three-word review ... cowboys and ninjas . ... a Gigli-level , what-were-they-thinking disaster that may nonetheless find a cult following among lovers of magnificent misfires . Succeeds in cutting out a distinct visual flourish amid a bland cinematic landscape . Lee revels in the poetry of carnage -- movie carnage -- and despite 360 splatter shots and bouquets of severed heads somehow makes it all seem more kiss-kiss , bang-bang than damaged , or damaging . While the movie seems designed to be a breakout for Jang , it 's Lee whose work actually makes an impression . You guess he 'll be back - hopefully , playing it straight next time . Simple video game-style action sequences with bad dialogue . While the film claims dazzling visuals , Lee fails to deliver the type of never-before-seen martial arts fights fans demand . 	Perfectly , thoroughly divisive , The Warrior 's Way will either be delightful or unbearable , depending on your tolerance for surreal , shamelessly over the top collisions of eastern and western clichs .
boy 2012 Joy juxtaposed with humiliation , silliness with sadness , fantasy with reality , and none of it formulaic . The editing feels fresh , as does the film . This is a good-natured , goofy and often charming little coming-of-age comedy that is bright , light and fun . It feels as authentic to Maori culture as the haka , with a cheeky and understated charm . As they say across the Tasman , choice . The storytelling is far from standard , from the endearingly eccentric characterizations and performances to match to the whimsical , sometimes surreal tone . A film like this would have little chance without the right casting , and James Rolleston is so right as Boy , it 's difficult to imagine anyone else . E.T. , Musical Youth , and Shogun also turn up , but these pop-culture signifiers are n't enough to make up for the lack of a plot ( or even a purpose ) . A wonderful mix of elements , ranging from lighthearted character-based humour to profound drama , and studded with observational detail about human nature in general , via the cultural specificity of New Zealand 's bi-racial society Rolleston 's winning presence doubtless has much to do with the fact that Boy is a record-breaking hit in its home country , but there 's some salt mixed in with the film 's sugar . Even the inevitable flaws of the low-budget production are winning , showcasing as they do the narrative artistry that makes Boy so distinctive amid current factory-written studio productions . It 's a lovely oddity , and one that will probably hit home for preteen audiences all over the world . 	Boy possesses the offbeat charm associated with New Zealand film but is also fully capable of drawing the viewer in emotionally .
agronomist A thoroughly absorbing and deeply affecting portrait of an extraordinary leader . Jean and Michle illustrate , far more eloquently than any concatenation of events , the longstanding travails of Haitians in their impassioned desire for independence . This affecting eulogy underscores not only Demme 's own tribute to Dominique but also the film 's homage to radio . With Haiti again in the news , The Agronomist is an apt history lesson about its political turmoil and a powerful testimonial about patriotism in the face of oppression . The film crackles with Dominique 's voice and personality -- but not , unfortunately , his ideas . Not an extraordinary portrait , but it does portray an extraordinary man . Free speech is n't merely a shibboleth in The Agronomist . As embodied by Dominique , it 's a fire-breathing force . A moving portrait of the late Haitian radio personality who campaigned for democracy , Jean Dominique . A profile , often moving , of the quixotic figure at Haiti 's hopeful center , Dominique . Works best as an homage . 	A well-made , emotionally engaging documentary about Haitian social activist Jean Dominique .
tully Deliciously slow . The whole movie consists of talk . The characters talk about what used to happen , what 's going to happen , what happened while you were looking the other way and listening to people talk . A yawn-provoking little farm melodrama . The torpid tempo only compounds the self-conscious coyness . Convincingly acted across the board , it 's a film with a lot on its mind , a story whose crises slowly gain in intensity , gathering like threatening storm clouds on an initially clear horizon . It brims with characters , incidents and dialogue that are alternately sharp and lyrical , and sometimes both at the same time . Watching Tully reminded me of a time when calling a movie 'little ' was a compliment , a way of saying a director had found ways to locate his movie in a world that seemed entirely real . Flawed but promising . Poignant and funny . An impressive debut ; it looks and feels like life . 	A beautifully acted , quietly moving little film .
at berkeley A teaching lesson in the thoughtful strengths and the frustrating weaknesses of Wiseman 's fly-on-the-wall , observational-over-time technique of documentary filmmaking . `` At Berkeley '' is a must for educators facing the same problems as UCB but only hardcore film buffs , especially documentary fans , would consider taking four-hours of their time to see it . `` At Berkeley '' is an epic watch , but you certainly come out of there feeling like you 've learned a lot . At Berkeley earns credit for documenting a distinctly articulate community . Hypnotically edited and intellectually stimulating , At Berkeley does n't feel a minute too long , even at four hours . Think a four-hour , narrative-free documentary in which we peep in on board meetings and lectures with unnamed bigwigs at one of America 's most prestigious universities sounds boring ? Well you 'd be right about that , as it is . One of the great things about the 83 year-old Frederick Wiseman is that he never approaches a subject like the blind men and the elephant - the director presents us with the whole mammal . Anyone who cares about documentary filmmaking , or about the state of public higher education , will find themselves quietly dazzled by the picture Wiseman paints here , in small dabs . This is particularly useful stuff for anyone who works in higher education , and for documentary makers , but it holds rewards for anyone with the time and the stamina to take it on . `` At Berkeley '' transcends its subject to get at something ineffable and yet so universal about existence , its promise , mystery , and drudgery all wonderfully mixed together . 	Its generous running time will test less forbearing viewers ' patience , but for filmgoers seeking more of director Frederick Wiseman 's observant brand of documentary , At Berkeley satisfies .
last kiss ... credible resolutions are n't [ Haggis ' ] strongest suit . The Last Kiss is interminably bleak . It does n't win laughs or offer catharsis . The film only lowers your spirits and never seems to end . For all the hurting and hollering , The Last Kiss rarely pushes its emotions from scripted to authentic . The Last Kiss is the kind of film fodder best left to DVD rental , a far more economical prospect than taking it in on a Saturday night at the local multiplex . Braff is an absolutely charming screen presence , and redeems a should-be hateable character ... The movie is like a bad kiss that 's a little sloppy and uninspired ... it leaves you disappointed . ... it 's the best date film in eons -- if you 're 29 or older . I found it trite , loud and overheated , although not without insight into how that generation behaves . Watching these privileged young people fret over the the banal soap opera of their protected lives made me want to don a bandana and join a gang of socialist revolutionaries . There 's nothing formulaic in this story of four buddies on the cusp of 30 torn between settling down and opening themselves up to more adventures ... 	You 'll either find the The Last Kiss to be a phony bore or a refreshing take about young 20-somethings at the crossroads between their carefree lifestyle and responsibility . Zach Braff and the rest of the appealing cast make the case for the latter .
hamlet 2 Who knew such lunacy could be so inspiring ? If you 're not offended easily and like good camp you 'll love Hamlet 2 , a joke-a minute lampoon of tortured artists with a finale that should n't be missed . Coogan gets in some funny line readings from time to time , but there 's too much emphasis on his likeability for him to be truly funny . Oddly , what 's supposed to be a great comedy about a bad play is in fact a bad comedy about a play that looks pretty frigging amazing The more things fall apart , the funnier the film gets . I am not fond of listening to characters scream unfunny lines meant to send up the blandness of everyday people . Coogan 's mopiness is oddly riveting . A shoddy and indulgent mass of bits from other movies with a shapeless , shameless performance by British comedic actor Steve Coogan as its unfixed center . a wildly uneven satire -- not nearly as controversial or as funny as you might have expected . Hamlet 2 belongs firmly to Steve Coogan , which is fortunate since none of the film 's supporting players prove to be the least bit memorable . 	The script 's biting premise and Steve Coogan 's endearing , off-the-handle performance make Hamlet 2 an hysterical -- if slightly painful -- ride .
intolerable cruelty The resulting film is pretty odd-there are numerous moments throughout that are identifiably Coenesque , I suppose , but it never really feels like a true Coen Brothers film . It feels more like what it is ; a standard-issue romantic comedy that occasionally Little more than an exercise in mimicry , an empty if stylish exercise in mocking sendup . While it 's not nearly as beguiling as the Coen 's last pic , the uncanny The Man Who Was n't There , Cruelty is still a brisk hoot . Clooney is definitely the man of these two hours . His portrait of a shark in love is a model of classy comic acting . It 's one of those movies you recommend to a friend , then spend the next five minutes cataloging its flaws . Too slick but amusing marital farce . Anyone who feels nostalgia for the classic age of screwball comedy will get a charge out of Intolerable Cruelty . As he showed in O Brother , Where Art Thou ? Clooney has become a first-class comic performer , one eager to blow off his matinee-idol looks and indulge his characters ' inner idiocies . There 's snappy dialogue , delightfully off-center acting and a pulsing thoroughfare of cynicism . Full of malicious fun , weirdness and enough star power to blast through any repetitiveness . 	Though more mainstream than other Coen films , there are still funny oddball touches , and Clooney and Zeta-Jones sizzle like old-time movie stars .
a-good-old-fashioned-orgy These immature , fairly pitiable protagonists go about their absurd project in all the wrong ways . But you just keep rooting for them . Funny if less outrageous than expected given the boundary-pushing comedies that have found acceptance in recent years , A Good Old Fashioned Orgy earns its R but may leave audiences wanting more . There 's funny and then there 's funny , and `` A Good Old-Fashioned Orgy '' is neither . Imagine if the characters on TV 's beloved sitcom Friends lost their lease and decided to mark the end with an orgy ... gives new meaning to `` I 'll be there for you . '' This is a comedy without wit and soul . It strands fairly likable actors in a morass of the kind of dialogue only stupid characters ever say - and then only when reading stupid screenplays . The plot , a slow build to the will-they-or-won't-they climax , relies less on bared flesh than a humorous sense of squareness ... A title like that sets up certain expectations , and I thought the film I saw was sweeter and sadder in some ways than I expected . First-time filmmakers Gregory and Huyck have assembled a fantastic cast who do an amazing job selling this fairly simple comedy premise and making every scene count . Old-fashioned , but certainly not good ... hardly the rambunctiously raunchy laugh-fest the title suggests , [ but ] more like a slightly steamier version of a typical network sitcom . Chlamydia , gonorrhea and Jason Sudeikis are three reasons to stay well clear of `` A Good Old Fashioned Orgy , '' but they 're not the only ones . 	Its titillating title promises ribald laughs , but the lazily written , indifferently acted , and only sporadically funny A Good Old Fashioned Orgy fails to consummate .
1012007-laura A classic murder film worth seeing over and over . Preminger 's deft direction creates an elegant noirish tone , and he elicits near-perfect performances from everyone , even a pre-Horror Schlock Vincent Pryce . Great suspense . Laura is still every bit as gripping in 2012 . A masterfully complex -- and frequently campy -- portrait of all-consuming romantic self-delusion . At times , the plotting takes leaps that the film 's 87-minute run does n't adequately support ; but overall this is a gem . Not only one of Preminger 's greatest , but one of the great noirs . Both old and new viewers are in for a treat . It is the sleekest of murder mysteries , and ahead of its time -- not least in having a gay suitor for Laura , and possibly two . Gene Tierney makes an appealing figure as the art executive and Vincent Price is convincing as a weak-willed ne'er-do-well . 	A psychologically complex portrait of obsession , Laura is also a deliciously well-crafted murder mystery .
hitman French director Xavier Gens keeps the action riveting and spectacular . Director Xavier Gens admirably tries his best with the material but he is failed by a sub-par script by Skip Woods . Awkwardly paced and muddled . 47 does n't even want the girl . What kind of action movie is this ? A skippable one , ultimately . Olyphant faz o possvel com um personagem unidimensional por natureza , mas o roteiro absurdo e a direo frgil de Gens , que parece acreditar que cortes rpidos substituem arcos narrativos , conferem ao filme um ar de produo feita para DVD . A mechanical series of violent set-pieces decorated with underdressed hotties . It 's handsome but astonishingly dull and weirdly sexless , despite the aforementioned underdressed girls and frequent discussion of Nika 's undergarments or lack thereof . Hitman is inspired by a video game . That of course carries all sorts of baggage . A slick take on sniping , strangling , homicidal body doubles , and a seductive Moscow sex slave in distress , the property of a local baddie , whom the hero invites to tag along from inside his car trunk , do n't ask . You should see this movie for the action and gunfights ... oh , and for Olga Kurylenko . Only the deadpan delivery of Timothy Olyphant as Agent 47 enlivens the wooden dialogue of this collection of clichs masquerading as a silver-screen adaptation . 	Hitman features the unfortunate combination of excessive violence , incoherent plot , and inane dialogue .
baby boy A bold criticism of young black men who carelessly father babies , live off their mothers and do n't even think of looking for work . The gratuitous violence sucks , and the pat conclusion prompts one to shout do n't believe the hope ! , but otherwise Singleton has wrangled his characters into a very impressive emotional exorcism . [ Jody 's ] lessons on growing up and moving on never ring more than halfhearted and false . [ Singleton ] He means for this to be r,38p,11p revelatory , but it is instead exhausting . Though it 's a daring and commendable message , Singleton has trouble focusing it . Without a convincing Jody , Singleton 's thesis about a son 's absolute need for a father figure is never played out . If nothing else , its thematic originality makes it a unique and groundbreaking work . Baby Boy , for all of its naivet and indulgences , has some humility in it as well , which does its creator good . Highly flawed but hugely fascinating . A crowd-pleaser about chronic , multi-generational irresponsibility . 	Preachy and repetitive in parts , Baby Boy still manages to exude authenticity , thanks to its competent cast .
le havre 2011 The result is both charming and purposeful . Pitting that grandiose takeaway with the director 's intentionally over-the-top stylistic dalliances , Le Havre maintains a fresh balance that never falters . offers plenty of things to talk about but perhaps the most remarkable part about it is its confidence of style and its sober-eyed sense of uplift Heart-wrenching but ultimately inspirational . Kaurismki clearly knows this is a fantasy , and it 's a perfectly pleasant one at that . An exceeding droll comedy from Finnish master Aki Kaurismaki , whose dark worldview is balanced by a deep empathy for his blue-collar characters . A stylized and sentimental fairy tale about the way the world might be , grounded in a frank recognition of the way it is . Written and directed by Finland 's Aki Kaurismki , this warmly engaging film is an understated pleasure about a surprisingly resourceful underdog . `` Le Havre '' is warm-hearted and uplifting , without being schmaltzy or preachy . And , with its illegal-alien theme , it 's dead-on timely . If the bummers and ambiguity of some of this season 's movies are getting you down - or , hey , just the bummers and ambiguities of life - make your way to Le Havre . You wo n't be sorry . 	Aki Kaurismki 's deadpan wit hits a graceful note with Le Havre , a comedy/drama that 's sweet , sad , and uplifting in equal measure .
dolphin tale Dolphin Tale works best when it 's not actively trying to manipulate your tear ducts . Dolphin Tale is flattering , polished , and local chambers of commerce will milk it for years . Even if produced anywhere else , Dolphin Tale is a nice piece of work ... the kind of movie that gives squeaky-clean a good name . A Disney-esque amalgam of sweetness , humor and a general heartwarming vibe . Two hours of redemptive hugs , triumphant whoops and tearful smiles later we learn that pinning a tail on a dolphin is , on the scale of human achievement , not far behind winning the Nobel Peace Prize and discovering a cure for cancer . This is not only kid-friendly fare , but a lovely family movie . Gamble 's rapport with his finned costar is so touching that the movie works anyway . Despite few moments of cornball and some gratuitous 3D , Dolphin Tale is irresistibly cute and undeniably touching -- an enjoyable film for all members of the family . Karen Janszen and Noam Dromi have built a screenplay around a true story that draws on familiar Hollywood-movie tropes , but plays well just the same ... This is an old-fashioned cockle-warmer that connects through flesh and blood , not pixels . A heart-warming story that is one of the best family movies of the year . 	Wisely dialing down the schmaltz , Dolphin Tale is earnest , sweet , and well-told , a rare family film that both kids and parents can enjoy .
10006630-life of reilly Charles Nelson Reilly 's one-man stage show makes for a terrific one-man movie . Gives us a sense of a full life of triumph and tragedy , an epic story told in 84 minutes by a master raconteur . ... it 's a funny and frequently affecting reminiscence ... Unfortunately , I never caught Nelson live , but this film has to be the closest thing to it . An exuberant story it is , at least as digested and heightened in this truncated performance , filmed before an audience at the end of the show 's L.A. engagement . For anyone who appreciates what The Life of Reilly was really all about , it is worthwhile . It does n't pretend to be a movie , really , but it 's an unexpected treat from a man who made a living out of being silly . [ Reilly ] looks frail but holds the audience spellbound in Barry Poltermann and Frank Anderson 's valuable record of the final performance of the autobiographical show that he toured for five years . The Life of Reilly lets us know how much the world has changed . For a performer who turned banter into an art form , Reilly 's stage production , Save It for the Stage , was the ideal vehicle for his autobiography . 	The Life of Reilly is a humorous and endearing look at the late comedian .
young adult Watching Charlene Theron prep her face in unflattering detail , with foundation , extensions and god knows what else , you ca n't help but think about Dr. Frankenstein putting together his monster . It 's funny , in a can't-look-away-from-the-train-wreck way , and it 's brutally honest . But it 's not pretty . A low-key , indie-style comedy that plays precariously close to an unfunny sociopathic case study . Jason Reitman and Diablo Cody are taking a huge leap of faith with their latest collaboration , the offbeat and sometimes scintillating Young Adult . Cody delivers a stinging repudiation of that sentimental piety that is also Hollywood 's biggest and most fatuous lie : that home is always best , and monochrome Kansas is better than dazzling , multi-colour Oz . Cody and Reitman were once two of the most promising talents in the filmmaking business , but Young Adult erases any of their past success from memory . I truly hope for a return to form soon because YA is a real downer . Scathingly funny 'mean girl ' story has lots of drinking . A mouthwateringly sour anti-romantic comedy directed by Jason Reitman and written by Diablo Cody ... Mavis is not entirely irredeemable . Perfectly balancing credibility and mental instability , Theron gives her surprising depth . `` Young Adult '' is not a terrible film , just one that was not thought out very well . 	Despite its somewhat dour approach , Young Adult is a funny and ultimately powerful no-holds-barred examination of prolonged adolescence , thanks largely to a convincing performance by Charlize Theron .
gattaca At its best , Gattaca makes you ponder about serious questions of identity and why we are who we are . When they sculpted the DNA for the perfect race in Gattaca , somebody left out the gene for self-knowledge . The most original and visionary movie of its ilk in a long time . If smart sci-fi is your vial of tea , Gattaca wo n't disappoint . A film that substitutes intelligence for explosions . A high-tech version of 1984 , and is all the more scary because of our rapidly advancing technology that makes the film not seem so farfetched . A cautionary tale of the dangers of unchecked technology , Gattaca would have benefited from a more assured directing hand . We have seen the future , and it 's awfully stark ... according to movies , anyway . I did n't care enough about Hawke 's character to ignore a big problem in the story 's logic : if this future has such incredible biotechnology , why ca n't Law just get his damaged body parts fixed ? Intriguing and atmospheric . 	Intelligent and scientifically provocative , Gattaca is an absorbing sci fi drama that poses important interesting ethical questions about the nature of science .
kandahar le soleil derriere la lune Amateurishly made and acted , but its lifting of the veil of the oppression of women does have its powerful moments . Intense , anecdotal and empowered by perversely beautiful imagery . There 's no denying the film has its share of fascinating moments -- or that , on whole , it has a lasting power , especially its bleak , sucker-punch ending . We never see Nafas reach Kandahar , but we have been taken on a colorful and exhilarating trip just the same . Although it 's unevenly acted , Kandahar is a devastating film . A mesmerizing film about one young woman 's quest for hope in war-torn Afghanistan where refugees struggle to survive and fear reigns in the hearts of everyone . [ T ] he film has so many riveting scenes . There are moments of quiet power . Didactic and slow-moving , it tests the endurance of even the most die-hard aficionado of Iranian cinema . Kandahar works best as a semidocumentary , explaining the overwhelming hunger and poverty , the savage effects of land mines and the barbaric treatment of women in Afghanistan . 	Eerily timely , Kandahar offers haunting images of a bleak land .
he got game Most scenes play too long , with a surplus of ideas , textures , tones and characters , and after 134 minutes it 's clear Lee 's problem with closure has n't gone away . Lee is a long way from the size and scope of his best film , Do the Right Thing , but at least he is working on a subject he cares about and is doing it with polish . Flawed but powerful . It 's the best basketball film since White Men Ca n't Jump , only it 's better . Washington 's Jake Shuttlesworth looks tough and hard , an odd but refreshing turn for an actor long associated with handsomely heroic roles . As Jesus , Ray Allen gives a better performance than one would expect from a professional athlete . Spike Lee 's respect -- nay , worship -- of basketball is contagious and his audacious metaphors give shape to a powerful story of a father 's efforts to save his son . And we all know a thing or two about that story . Could have used a clearer focus , but what does come sharply into view registers strongly . The wildly uneven script includes both disciplined , lively riffs and amateurishly artificial exchanges . The most effective moments are small , when Lee lets his fine actors do their work without all the ( movie ) business . 	Though not without its flaws , He Got Game finds Spike Lee at or near the top of his late-period game , combining trenchant commentary with his signature visuals and a strong performance from Denzel Washington .
1013970-miracle on 34th street What makes Miracle a genuine miracle of holiday filmmaking is the pitch-perfect balance of social cynicism and human generosity . You want the spirit of Christmas ? It 's all right here . The original ( and best ) version of the cockle-warming tale of a man who claims to be the real-life Santa Claus . After It 's A Wonderful Life , there really is no better flick to curl up with over the festive season . Formulaic , but charming . A touch labored but lovable . So you do n't believe in Santa Claus ? If you want to stay a non-believer do n't see Miracle . Quite plainly , it 's the Christmas spirit put on film . Decades after it was made , this fable , featuring Edmund Gwenn 's Oscar-winning role as Santa Claus , remains one of the most enchanting Christmas movies . Classic holiday movie for the whole family . 	Irrefutable proof that gentle sentimentalism can be the chief ingredient in a wonderful film , Miracle on 34th Street delivers a warm holiday message without resorting to treacle .
planes trains and automobiles One of the few truly funny things that both Martin and Candy did . Planes , Trains and Automobiles showed that Hughes was n't in fact some man-child searching for the reasons for his adulthood discontentment . The late John Candy does his best work in one of the funniest films of the '80s . It 's the pathos under the boisterous , noisy comedy that helps fuel its continuing popularity today . The finest comedy screenplay John Hughes ever wrote . One of the funniest films ever made ... The script and direction by Hughes ... amount to wobbly passes that Martin and Candy turn into touchdowns anyway . John Hughes at the peak of his powers , with two masterful comedians at theirs . A riotously springy holiday knockabout . Consistently funny comedy of forced relationships . 	Thanks to the impeccable chemistry between Steve Martin and John Candy , as well as a deft mix of humor and heart , Planes , Trains and Automobiles is a hilarious , heartfelt holiday classic .
matrix reloaded Highly pretentious and overly serious yet a feast for the eyes with groundbreaking effects and action sequences . Though introducing some new ideas and characters , Matrix Reloaded is not as exciting as the 1999 original , suffering from problems that often inflict middle chapters of trilogies . Either do it right and deepen an already rich storyline , or give in and make an unabashed action movie . Fortunately , even with its many flaws , The Matrix Reloaded succeeds admirably as the latter . It 's a real sequel rather than a regurgitation . And the fight scenes are extraordinary . Hopefully November 's release of 'Revolutions ' will reveal a clarity of purpose and a satisfying end to the saga . In mid-May , I can only go by what I see on the screen . And it 's a muddled , overreaching , occasionally engrossing mess . The encoded bloom is off the digital rose in The Matrix Reloaded . [ Blu-ray ] The Matrix was , hands down , the best cyberpunk/kung fu/techno-pagan/Christian-allegory action film ever made . The Matrix Reloaded is the second best . ... visually vigorous and devoutly exhilarating ... a frenetic fable that 's thankfully rousing and robust ... undeniably rapid , exotic , and marvelous in its impressive viewing . The Matrix Reloaded may have it 's problems , but it certainly is n't a bad film . It suffers from many of the same problems of other 'great ' film sequels The technical talent is there : the problem is the script , which never once pauses to consider its own essential silliness . 	Though its heady themes are a departure from its predecessor , The Matrix Reloaded is a worthy sequel packed with popcorn-friendly thrills .
mona lisa smile um pouco difcil lev-lo a srio , j que sua postura de 'filme-denncia ' soa , no mnimo , anacrnica . Mona Lisa Smile is more of a Guernica grin-a broadly drawn , fractured , too-modern take on 1950s repression . Ambiguity [ in this film ] is the unwitting product of outrageous disorganization , wild ambivalence , and an unerring instinct for , well , error . [ `` Mona Lisa Smile '' ] is a well-made , feminist-anchored , politically correct liberal film that teaches some good , modern day lessons to its femme audience . Everyone in Dead Girls Society , err , Mona Lisa Smile wears their one character trait like a placard . A keen sense of how women have swam through a whole lot of repression and pain back then , to pave the way for females to breeze along through in the here and now . Have you heard ? The 1950s were tyrannically conformist ... . I mean , who knew ? If the women of the 1950s were really this stupid , there would have never been a feminism movement . There are a few reasons to enjoy the film , namely its likable cast , its noble aim -- of dramatizing one of the many small steps that led to the overhaul of women 's higher education -- and its unexpected ability to surprise you . Merits A 's for casting , writing , directing and fresh subject matter . 	Though Mona Lisa Smile espouses the value of breaking barriers , the movie itself is predictable and safe .
big night The movie is like a great meal overlayed with sublime conversation and mingled with a little goofiness . When it comes to seeing Big Night , two words say it all : Bon appetite ! A charming little gem . Charming , funny , poignant and mouth-watering , this is most wisely seen well fed beforehand or you 'll be drooling . What works about this movie is the way directors Tucci and Scott maintain an atmosphere of understated control despite the frenzied nature of the situation and the characters . A wonderful film about how the simple pleasures of life -- food , family , friends -- are n't so simple . A feast of great acting and tender , small moments Insecurity , passion , love , lust , life lessons and the American Dream all play a part in Big Night , and each touches a nerve under the fastidious direction of Tucci and Scott . A triumph for everyone involved , but especially for Stanley Tucci . A well meaning but uninvolving drama . Why do we care about the chefs ? I never really figured it out . 	The performances in Big Night are wonderful , and the food looks delicious .
a most wanted man A smart , classy , slow-burn thriller made up of the stuff of authentic spy work and plenty of bitter irony about modern geopolitics . A naturalistic thriller that gives itself over to the tremendous , hushed force of the late Philip Seymour Hoffman . Watching `` A Most Wanted Man '' now , knowing that it 's the last time we 'll see Hoffman explore such an imperfect soul , just makes the experience that much more engrossing . This one is well-acted but bleaker than usual , thanks to an uninvolving story , a shortage of sympathetic characters , leaden pacing by director Anton Corbijn , and washed-out , dreary cinematography by Benot Delhomme . Perhaps it accurately conveys the more mundane side of the war on terror , but that does n't make for an entertaining film . A Most Wanted Man concludes on a bleakly prescient note , not only in offering an extraordinarily trenchant critique of American foreign policy but also as a moody send off to Hoffman himself . Given the deadly stakes , this should be gripping , but the film gets sucked into academic plot details , trudging through each rendezvous and stakeout . Hoffman is a lovely fit as one of Le Carre 's dilapidated , disappointed anti-heroes , whose post-ideological bafflement regarding the point of what he 's doing feels wholly convincing . The all-time great actor has given audiences one last parting gift : The chance to experience a performance unlike any he 'd ever given ; to see him again , anew . Stylish , dense contemporary spy drama about a suspected terrorist on the loose in 2008 Hamburg has the late Philip Seymour Hoffman again delivering an exceptional performance , here as a rogue German agent determined to stamp out terrorism . 	Smart , subtle , and steadily absorbing , A Most Wanted Man proves once again that John le Carre books make for sharp , thoughtful thrillers .
meru 2015 The film 's combination of post-climb interviews and real-time footage provides the moviegoer with a unique perspective of these men . In a mere 90 minutes , we get to know them on a strangely personal level that other documentaries rarely achieve . There 's steady , scary thrill in the final third of Meru , the latest attempt to conquer the climb-and-tweak-the-nose-of-God mountaineering documentary , a genre that has yet to reach its apex . In lieu of Oscar-grabby performances , there are climbers talking , raw and intense , about the tragedies they 've weathered on their way to accomplishing something no one else has . Practitioners of climbing -- and enthusiasts who prefer to experience such extreme activity from the comfort of their armchairs -- will find this film a treat . Meru does n't explain the climbers . It lets us get to know them a little , while presenting their gripping ( sue me -- it 's the appropriate word ) adventures . The footage is astonishing , the cold and wind practically jumping from the screen and down your neck . A bit too much time is spent in admiration and hero worship over the indefatigable will of these men , when it is the footage on that mountainside that matters . Though the `` Meru '' climbing and outdoor footage is spectacular , it is the personal struggle of each of the climbers , and the candid way they talk about them on camera , that give this film its considerable impact . The stories of survival and resilience border on the superhuman and impress , as does the lucid cinematography . Perhaps best suited for those already invested in the mountaineering world , `` Meru '' still translates to all audiences , highlighting nerves of steel and impressive determination . 	Gripping visually as well as narratively , Meru is the rare documentary that proves thought-provoking while offering thrilling wide-screen vistas .
match point Thank goodness Allen has left New York and left himself out of the script . Like Woody himself , blessedly old fashioned craft for craft 's sake . This dark tale of societal comfort combines Allen 's witty writing with the confusion and distress of making major life decisions . From the expert performances to the surprising outcome , Match Point is an engrossing experiment in romantic disengagement . His most absorbing picture in years . Lugubriously slow and inert , Match Point simply drags without those customary Woody Allen one-liners . . . ... retools the resolution of Crimes and Misdemeanors so its hero , instead of losing his grasp on morality , never even had a hold on morality in the first place . [ Allen 's ] new movie , Match Point , devoted to lust , adultery , and murder , is the most vigorous thing he 's done in years . Allen 's strongest and most self-assured dramatic feature in over a decade . Welcome back , Woody ! You 've been missed . Game , set , match ... Allen wins with slow-moving English drama ... 	Woody Allen 's sharpest film in years , Match Point is a taut , philosophical thriller about class and infidelity .
contempt Another great argument in favor of the current restoration-and-rerelease trend , Contempt is a cinematic masterwork that superbly satires the filmmaking community with subtle yet biting aplomb . The star pouts prettily , as always ; Palance is fascinatingly evil ; and famed director Fritz Lang plays himself with aplomb . A masterpiece . It 's talky and filled with broken rhythms and a running stream of thoughts , and is boldly told in exaggerated stylized terms . I would argue that Godard 's eclecticism must be acknowledged and understood before one can genuinely appreciate the film . Godard has a great sense for the visual , and his films are feasts for the eyes . This one has too much forced intellectualism to it , even though it is an engrossing time capsule . Who is the Godard guy and how could he make something as humdrum yet full-of-itself as Contempt ? A fine film about the pressures of filmmaking . And it 's an even finer film about the tragedy of marital dissolution . A rich and heady cocktail of the various things swimming around in Jean-Luc Godard 's mind at the time of its production . 	This powerful work of essential cinema joins `` meta '' with `` physique , '' casting Brigite Bardot and director Godard 's inspiration Fritz Lang .
miami vice No kick *** fights , and only a couple of rock 'em sock 'em shootouts , which are difficult to see due to Mann 's grainy night vision-like shooting style . `` Miami Vice '' is singularly lacking an iconoclastic style . It 's shot with a gritty , shaky approach . Miami Vice is a dark , grainy and heavy drama and so super-serious and smoky thick it could be called Miasma Vice . Michael Mann has come a long way since his days supervising Miami Vice on TV , and it 's fascinating to watch a filmmaker of such extraordinary ability working a slice of pure cheesecake like this . The overall effect is still striking and often unexpected , with an impact that grows and lingers long after the final , abrupt shot . While Miami Vice is heavy on the style and visuals of Mann 's other films , almost everything else which makes his work so watchable is absent . Miami Vice is that summer movie that a lot of people have been waiting for , something for the adults to see , something that demands that you pay attention ... and lots of guns & drugs . Michael Mann is the first director to make Colin Farrell seem like a man rather than the impish thugs or mooning boy-men he usually gives us . Were it not for its title , this plodding , tiresome mess would have never seen the light of day . After an FBI sting goes bad , Miami detectives Sonny Crockett ( Colin Farrell ) and Ricardo Tubbs ( Jamie Foxx ) head deep undercover to infiltrate a Colombian drug network . Complications arise when Crockett goes under covers with Isabella ( Gong Li ) , the righ 	Miami Vice is beautifully shot but the lead characters lack the charisma of their TV series counterparts , and the underdeveloped story is well below the standards of Michael Mann 's better films .
finding forrester Finding Forrester is Gus Van Sant treading water in Hollywood , but he 's making a beautiful pattern . Rather hollow effort . The well-constructed script is n't especially original , but it gives the Forrester/Jamal relationship time to grow and it makes sure the plot developments are firmly rooted in the specifics of character . There 's plenty here that feels real and true . A simplistic , irritating , and often ridiculous travesty posing as a feel-good movie . Movies about writers are notoriously hard to do , since writing by its nature is not cinematic . Finding Forrester evades that problem by giving us a man who wrote one good novel a long time ago , and now writes no more . Does n't fully live up to all the expectations but is still enjoyable . A rare find . Finding Forrester manages to take the cerebral act of literary creation and make it exciting , sexy even . A solidly enjoyable , fairly cerebral feature raised above its roots by stout performances from its two leads . 	Despite the predictability of its plot and its similarity to Good Will Hunting , Finding Forrester has an honest , solid feel to it and good rapport between Connery and Brown .
1202804-green zone For a popcorn flick , it has style and smarts . And while it 's not an actors ' film , it offers solid performances . Yes , the film is fiction , employs farfetched coincidences and improbably places one man at the center of all the action . It is a thriller , not a documentary . It 's a good movie , but definitely a few notches away from a great one . When shots go in and out of focus , and when over the shoulder shots actually obscure the subject 's face , that 's not okay . You should know what you 're shooting , even if it 's constructed as 'documentary ' style . It 's intriguing material that [ screenwriter Brian ] Helgeland offers but so insistent on condemnation and vast conspiracy theories that we lose an authentic sense of damage . Green Zone is a story we 've already heard , shot in a manner we 've already seen , and starring Matt Damon in a role he 's already played . The prospect of seeing ace British director Paul Greengrass working with Matt Damon again will excite many cinemagoers . Too little , too late : Using Greengrass ' signature , overly familiar visceral style , Green Zone elevates its Bourne-like hero to a mythic level and is not effective as a conspiracy thriller about WMD for many different reasons . There 's something thrilling about watching a studio picture that actually expresses a strong political point of view . An energetic , frenzied thriller -- Paul Greengrass-style -- set in Iraq in the chaotic post-invasion days . 	Matt Damon and Paul Greengrass return to the propulsive action and visceral editing of the Bourne films -- but a cliched script and stock characters keep those methods from being as effective this time around .
bully 2012 Hirsch wants to make you angry , to raise your blood pressure as a first step toward raising your consciousness . While he does n't make great cinema , there 's no doubt he makes his point . There 's nothing surprising or provocative in the film , which seems to want to reassure us when it should want to tick us off . Physical superiority and popularity are no longer prerequisites for grinding someone else down , which makes understanding bullying as essential as stigmatizing it . We are all bullies now . There 's no doubt 'Bully ' should be required viewing in every classroom in America It presents a dramatic case for creating supportive communities that will stand up to those being bullied in the world . Now the onus is on all of us to play our part in making it happen . The access varies widely , there 's far too much music telling us what to feel , and at the end its focus begins to drift . If it at least gets people talking , though , that 's a good thing . Your heart hurts for these kids , and the blood boils , too , at irrefutable evidence that these children are not safe in their schools . If you feel like you 've already read quite a bit about the documentary `` Bully , '' you have . But that still wo n't prepare you for the experience of seeing it . Bully is about having the courage to stand up to bullies - whether they 're in your child 's school or handing out ratings at the MPAA . Focusing on the experiences of five families , filmmaker Lee Hirsch offers simple , direct and eloquent testimony supporting the need for individual and group action against bullying . 	Hard-hitting and gracefully filmed , Bully powerfully delivers an essential message to an audience that may not be able to see it .
true-grit-2010 True Grit is exceptionally entertaining and is probably the first in the Coen canon that could almost be categorized as a family film . Almost . The big names in the cast all do excellent work , but the biggest surprise is all but unknown Steinfeld . True Grit is a parable of strong spiritual significance in its exploration of the attainment of sin in the pursuit of revenge , and mercy in the face of death . True Grit stands as a testament to the fact that apparently it IS possible to produce an excellent remake of a classic and beloved film . Imagine you heard the Coen brothers had gone and made a straight-up Western . Now imagine Jeff Bridges , Josh Brolin and Matt Damon were in it . As movie news goes , that 's on a par with Christina Hendricks signing up for the Piranha 3D sequel . In choosing not to reinvent the wagon wheel with True Grit , the Coens ironically seem radical by being conformists . There 's truth and beauty in their faithfulness , though , and a reminder never to presume too much about these sibling ciphers . On its own conventional terms , the film succeeds -- maybe not as a `` Coen Brothers '' movie , but as a tall tale well told . Seemingly simple and straightforward upon first glance , the handsome period Western blossoms considerably into a profound nostalgic experience . Even if the movie does n't immediately blow you away like a shotgun blast , it 'll creep up on you like rattlesnake venom . A genuine triumph for all concerned ... one of the year 's best films . 	Girded by strong performances from Jeff Bridges , Matt Damon , and newcomer Hailee Steinfeld , and lifted by some of the Coens ' most finely tuned , unaffected work , True Grit is a worthy companion to the Charles Portis book .
pirates of the caribbean on stranger tides A new director and some key cast changes do little to right the ship for the oversized fourth installment in this decreasingly entertaining franchise . Though this movie ends with a clear indication of more possibilities ahead , I 'm more than ready to let Captain Jack Sparrow rest in rum-soaked peace . `` Pirates of the Caribbean : On Stranger Tides '' injects new vigor into a megabucks franchise and makes for a perfectly acceptable night out . The film 's tonal signature : it 's called the kitchen sink syndrome , in which farce and escapism sit side by uncomfortable side with odd moments of human drama , adventure and sheer silliness A real stinker . I dread the inevitable next instalment . Played with the same menace he showed in HBO 's `` Deadwood '' by the great Ian McShane , Blackbeard is to Jack Sparrow what Robert Shaw 's Red Grant was to James Bond in `` From Russia With Love : '' the baddest mother in the movie . It is truly strange that a film setting out to be pure entertainment , so full of stars and special effects , should be so mortifyingly dull - although , then again , as Dr Johnson said : `` Nothing is more hopeless than a scheme of merriment . '' No matter how much Cruz and Depp squabble during the quest to find the Fountain of Youth , no real sparks fly . There 's no other way to put it : `` On Stranger Tides '' is the best `` Pirates '' film since the original 	It 's shorter and leaner than the previous sequel , but this Pirates runs aground on a disjointed plot and a non-stop barrage of noisy action sequences .
troy Director Wolfgang Petersen and screenwriter David Benioff decided to excise the gods from Greek mythology and simply give us a collection of buff dudes and simpering women , characters that would be at home hangin ' in The O.C . An oddly uninspiring film that is as puny in ambition as it is epic in scope . It 's a handsomely designed , executed and acted film that is as enthralling on subsequent viewings as on the first encounter . With its spectacular , brutal battle sequences , it has the sword-and-sandals historical scope of 'Gladiator ' - but not the heart . The movie sidesteps the existence of the Greek gods , turns its heroes into action movie cliches and demonstrates that we 're getting tired of computer-generated armies . As summer-movie entertainment , Troy delivers the Trojan horse , and then some . Were Pitt a more charismatic lead , its sin of insignificance would probably have been redressed to some degree . The face-off between Achilles and Hector is beautifully realized , all the more wounding because we can precisely read each man 's emotions going into the fight . ... a little too long , a little too redundant and a little too boring for my taste . a throwback to the old Hollywood sword-and-sandal epics of the 1950s , but with more blood 	A brawny , entertaining spectacle , but lacking emotional resonance .
seabiscuit Brings every underdog theme out of the stable , making a movie with familiar themes seem as handsome as a thoroughbred , albeit one that has trouble in the homestretch . It 's the kind of movie that makes you feel better for having watched it , a film of endless hope and energy . A great story with strong characters that could use a few nips and tucks . After stumbling out of the gate , the film finally emerges as a moving feel-good story -- and captures the thrill and pounding clamor of horse racing in beautiful ways . You could have just as easily substituted in any random NASCAR , or even Lance Armstrong 's bicycle and achieved the same result . Before Seabiscuit hits the homestretch ... the movie slogs through some mud , weighed down by a filmmaker who does n't quite trust the horse carrying his colors . I will admit Seabiscuit is Oscar-bait ... when it 's done right , it 's wonderful . Seabiscuit is done right . A bloated , slow bore . And I 'm being kind . Hard to fight the idea that for the talent assembled , Seabiscuit should 've been much more . The terrific horse racing sequences , exciting as they are , complement the base story of human dignity and perseverance . 	A life-affirming , if saccharine , epic treatment of a spirit-lifting figure in sports history .
shut up and sing It was a throwaway scrap of a comment tossed to an audience baying with appreciation . The fact that you might emerge from the theater eager to give their albums a listen is a testament to how effective this lively and stirring movie about freedom of speech really is . A testimonial to the viability and efficiency of the American marketplace of ideas , where Toby Keith , Natalie Maines , Bill O'Reilly and millions of other voices are free to annoy , heckle , praise , please and sing ... Whether you love or hate the outspoken Maines , you 've got to give her this much : She 's never boring . The film as a whole is less a political document than it is a sensitively detailed backstage portrait of a unique musical phenomenon . While managing to say something about the principle of free speech and the power of consumerism in America , it also manages to be as smart , sassy and enjoyable as the Chicks . It 's a great portrait of Maines , a rebel girl you 'd really want to spend time with so long as she 's on your side . It 's the rare thorough documentary on a musical act whose dilemmas are faced in the here and now , one that should win over fans of the Chicks on the fence and of music docus and perhaps create a little cultural stir as well . The film is a wonderful and intelligent creation and certainly a must see for any Chicks fan that lost the faith over such an absurd and misunderstood moment of personal expression . The best documentary of 2006 . 	Though ostensibly an intimate look at the Dixie Chicks after their 2003 anti-Bush remark , the film achieves broader relevance by exploring how media , politics , and celebrities intertwine .
fantasia Certainly not to be missed . This is a very patchy affair -- while some of the animated pieces work , others come across as downright insane . The words most used to describe `` Fantasia , '' besides the conventional `` beautiful '' and `` wonderful '' were `` path-breaking '' and `` courageous . '' The phrase `` courageous beyond belief '' would be even more accurate . Critics may deplore Disney 's lapses of taste , but he trips , Mickey-like , into an art form that immortals from Aeschylus to Richard Wagner have always dreamed of . Ribboned with flaws both impossibly minor and embarrassingly large , but it surely must count as one of the most visually stunning American movies ever made . Groundbreaking . A symphony of sound , animation and unbridled Disney spirit . Remains a masterpiece of animation today . Though Fantasia did n't perform as well as Walt Disney had hoped , it remains a testament to his exceptional cinematic genius . [ Blu-ray ] The best concept for an animated film ever . One of the true great full-length cartoons . 	A landmark in animation ( and a huge influence on the medium of music video ) , Disney 's Fantasia is a relentlessly inventive blend of the classics with phantasmagorical images .
blast from the past No one will mistake this for comic gold , but it 's an amusing , affable way to spend 106 minutes , and sometimes that 's enough . A sunny , good-natured romantic comedy that is as light as air , but almost always charming . Once the movie decides the air is clear and Fraser begins walking the earth , Blast becomes much spottier at hitting its comic targets and suffers from a bad case of the cutes . Poor pacing ensures that most of the chuckles come in the film 's second half , which makes the first half a chore . An intelligent and lively romantic comedy with a subversive edge . Fraser is the sweet , goofy engine that drives this movie . The script does n't do enough with his reactions to a world that bears little relation to the Cold War planet Adam has been told about , but Fraser still manages to suggest volumes . That 's a relatively clever set-up for what 's become a familiar genre : the time-displacement comedy , in which we get a kick out of viewing our era through another era 's eyes . But this movie 's eyes , Adam 's , are awfully twinkly and not too focused . Fish-out-of-water comedy has some salty language . Blast From the Past is a cute little movie until it comes out of its bomb shelter , and then it turns distressingly stale right before our eyes . Although Fraser 's performance is the thing on which Blast From the Past '' hangs , there are many other good things to recommend it . 	Cute idea , but not consistently funny .
nancy drew A majority of the film is in awe of Nancy 's dynamic sleuthing skills and her confidence . It 's a wonderful change of pace for tween cinema . The tone is most similar to the `` Scooby-Doo '' films , which is n't a compliment . Okay , it 's not L.A . Confidential , but the story was fine and the time passed quickly -- or is that mercifully ? It 's an utter embarrassment that this movie should even carry the Nancy Drew name . an enjoyable combination of a typically Nancy Drew-ish mystery -- which includes a murdered screen star and a haunted house -- and some 'Clueless'-style comedy . Carolyn Keene 's straitlaced teen detective gets a modern , ironic makeover , but the irony wobbles and the jokes are n't strong enough to carry it . A cheerful diversion for the younger set , and Nancy 's innocence plays as a welcome diversion to the ongoing Spears-Hilton-Lohan debacles . Fleming 's movie does n't fuss much with originality or storytelling logic but it does play nice from beginning to end , its positive messages bundled up with self-aware humor and empowered feminine pep . Quaint and campy , seet yet clueless , it 's an odd combination . Emma Roberts ' Nancy has the sort of innocent smile Paris Hilton likely lacked at birth . 	Emma Roberts is bubbly and charming as Nancy Drew , the junior detective . But despite her best efforts , Nancy Drew still lacks excitement , surprise , and compelling secondary characters .
monsters university Partly because it 's a prequel , Monsters University is one of the few films from the gigantically successful studio that fails to deliver an emotional payoff . Pixar has done it again . Literally . Monsters University has loads of laughs and heart . Monsters University will probably turn out to be the best animated movie of the summer , but by Pixar standards , it 's strictly mediocre . After an hour it starts to feel like Harry Potter gone wacky and gonzo - and not quite wacky and gonzo enough . The artwork is accomplished , and intricate . The G-rating is genuine , without any gross-out gags . And there 's none of the usual winks to the adults with tired , pop-culture references . Director Dan Scanlon and his creative team pay exquisite attention to each delicious detail , including young Mike 's retainer that gleams each time he grins . Watchable , but unoriginal , laugh-starved and far from Pixar 's best and most ambitious . If it was n't for Mike 's romantic subplot with Celia in the first movie , I 'd make the argument he and Sulley are animation 's most enduring gay couple . Monsters University is the leading contender for best movie of the summer and top animated film of the year . Pixar 's funniest film to date 	Offering Monsters , Inc. fans a return visit with beloved characters , Monsters University delivers funny and thoughtful family entertainment for viewers of any age .
love and sex Are n't Annie Hall calibre , but they are remarkably more recognizably human than what passes for most movie romantic comedy . Scenes seem designed more for cuteness than believability . And never is the chemistry between Adam and Kate genuine , which is the kiss of death for a romantic comedy . It 's slick , polished to perfection , derivative and stripped of any of the real quirks or idiosyncrasies that make a romantic comedy fly . Marred by some soppy sections , casting that undermines the story 's believability and a kind of self-consciousness that makes it hard to really care about the characters . Janssen sparkles serenely . This jovial and knowing aperitif of a movie is a charming example of what has come to be known as the date movie . A simple , pleasing romantic comedy with a sharp tongue and a soft heart . Like love and sex , this film is pretty hard to resist . This romantic comedy presents a sassy overview of sexual politics where men and women expect so much of each other . This one tastes like a sour apple I had on a blind date many eons ago . 	Famke Janssen 's charm fails to rescue the movie from a dull screenplay .
tommy boy If this pairing sounds like movie magic to you , we 're sure you 'll love the picture . The movie is an assembly of cliches and obligatory scenes from dozens of other movies , all its better . Most of the time , it 's good for a solid laugh . Tommy Boy unspools just as you expect it to , and the comedy is as unrewarding as the story re-do it as a 10-15 minute motivational tape as a seminar for business and sales people ... Spade and Farley are so good together ... This is predictable and very silly stuff , but there are some solid laughs . If you 're expecting classic comedy , you likely wo n't enjoy Tommy Boy , but if you have Saturday Night Live-level expectations , it will be a pleasant surprise . Astounding for its number of effective gags , and it is a comedy that loses nothing on repeat viewings . As a sketch for a Saturday Night Live show , it would have been a tour de force . But as part of this rather unimaginative movie , it 's just a bit with a burning desk . 	Though it benefits from the comic charms of its two leads , Tommy Boy too often feels like a familiar sketch stretched thin .
kpax The specter of Robin Williams looms large . El manejo de la luz , el tono de los reflejos y el uso de colores y su temperatura es muy correcto , la puesta en escena como tal vale el pago del boleto por completo ... There is a great movie inside , burning to break free of the shackles of the writers Could never get over the tired script . Bridges completely steals the show from the more lauded Spacey , who 's simply on autopilot throughout . The overarching theme of this well-acted and spirited sci-fi drama is that we all can be medicine for one another . As a brainless laugh riot , it 's as funny as a flu epidemic . As a drama , it 's an unintentional Robin Williams vehicle sour beyond its shelf life . This film is just like reading a nice poem -the central image is what holds it together , rather than a compelling narrative structure . Everything is so labored and spelled out for the audience . ... a refreshingly uplifting story about the best of humanity . 	For those who have seen One Flew Over the Cuckoo 's Nest or Starman , K-Pax may not hold anything new . The movie works best as a showcase for Kevin Spacey and Jeff Bridges .
heart of gold This joins the ranks of really special concert films . Whether you 're a fan of Neil Young or not , do n't miss 'Heart of Gold . ' Demme understands this genre intimately ; he recognizes that the concert film requires more than just haphazardly pointing the camera at the musicians . Demme 's camera gives us the best possible seats , seats that sometimes put us just a couple of inches from Young , and he makes sure Heart of Gold is a concert film that works both as a concert and a film . Heart of Gold feels like an ample slice of the real America , the one truly worth caring for . And it 's such a rare thing in this benighted age that the simple clarity with which it 's presented feels like nothing less than a miracle . ... Neil Young has experimented with film many times , but this is by far the most accessible cinematic treatment of his music ; a troubadour at the top of his game . When it comes to pop-music icons , Neil Young is the full package . Vividly captures Young 's greatness by simply letting him do his thing . Two masters -- musician Neil Young and filmmaker Jonathan Demme -- combine their considerable talents to make Neil Young : Heart of Gold a gem of a concert film . This immaculate filmmaking creates an engaging documentary that makes you forget that you 're missing the energy of a live show because it 's a completely cinematic experience with its own special energy . `` Neil Young : Heart of Gold '' is a beautiful film . It will be a delight to existing fans and will surely convert new ones . 	Proving that it 's neither better to burn out nor fade away , Neil Young : Heart of Gold works both as a concert film and a meditation on mortality .
atlantis the lost empire Atlantis begins with a quote from Plato and ends with a dedication to the late Jim Varney but ca n't seem to find a happy medium between these two extremes . For the most part , the movie 's a bland disappointment , on many levels . Mindlessly follows an animated formula so old that it creaks . the movie , despite being visually innovative , is somewhat clumsy in its melding of old-fashioned storybook adventurism with a modern sensibility An imaginative and eye-popping mix of action , adventure , and sweeping vision landscapes filled with gorgeous computer enhanced animation . Struggles to be complex enough for adults yet simple enough for kids and ends up giving neither audience exactly what it wants . Atlantis , although some very smart people were involved in its making , is not the least bit interested in being very smart . A wonderful story that both children and adults can enjoy . Feels low-budget and unfinished . Way too complicated for kids and just too dull for adults . 	Atlantis provides a fast-paced spectacle , but stints on such things as character development and a coherent plot .
1213732-no impact man Beavan is nothing if not adept at selling himself . You wo n't want to give up two-ply , but you might rethink buying salad in one of those unwieldy plastic boxes during your next trip to the grocery store . in the end becomes a screwball comedy take on a well-intentioned environmentalist and his long-suffering wife : Scenes From a Green Marriage An interesting socio-analytical documentary that preaches valuable messages regarding global conservation . My problem is I wanted to shoot the film 's pompous messenger . This poignant , provocative documentary reduces the green movement to human scale -- and magnifies the size of mountain it 's trying to climb . The film , like Beavan himself , leaves an unholy mess of contradictions in its wake , but most productively , a great deal of those contradictions are our own . The real heat comes from Beavan 's reluctant wife , Michelle Conlin , a self-proclaimed shopaholic and Starbucks poster girl . Amiable enough , though it resembles a marketing tool for Beavan 's book about his project . No Impact Man is a very confused documentary that somehow puts its confusion to good use . Whether gamely playing cards by candlelight or sneaking ice from her workplace fridge when Colin 's homemade cooler fails , Michelle is the real star here , emotionally and dramatically . 	Half enviro-saving doc , half publicity stunt , No Impact Man is inspiring and fun to both casual activists and hardcore recyclers .
american wedding The third -- and , dear God , hopefully final -- American Pie film wastes talented actors on slapstick , sentimentality and smut . As politically incorrect , rude and disgusting as it is , I just could n't help but laugh . The gross and the sweet are inextricably intertwined in this series . The only thing really disappointing is that Alyson Hannigan 's band geek character is underused in what is a really good comedy . [ T ] here 's a subversive sweetness that runs just beneath the surface of the American Pie movies that makes them nearly impossible to resist . While there are some laughs , they 're not as loud as they would have been in the hands of a less clueless filmmaker . It 's not that the movie is bad , it just feels awkward and not quite right . If you like the formula -- Hallmark card sentiments contracted out to hardcore youth offenders -- American Wedding may be the best of the trio . It does n't take a rocket scientist ( or a pie fornicator ) to tell that American Wedding is easily the weakest in a once-promising series . does n't always work on its own , but it has a well-worn , comfortable feel that 's hard to dismiss 	Raunchier and even more gross than the first two American Pies , American Wedding ought to please fans of the series .
wall e WALL-E is something completely different for the kiddie crowd that will hold the attention of adults even with the 'G ' rating . While the film 's social message comes through loud and clear , it never detracts from the heart of the picture -- the unlikely romance between Wall*E and EVE . That 's the beauty of Pixar , behoden only to its own quality standards , it can still play the part of the child prodigy whose creative genius appears to have no boundaries . WALL-E conjures magical comedy out of the confusions of adolescence and the wrong turns of adulthood , as well as the exuberance of childhood . It 's sometimes bright , sometimes gloomy , but always engaging and accessible . WALL-E is a surprisingly moving parable of what we waste , and what we should cherish -- and wrapped in a romance so absurdly moving it could wring a tear or two even from Gort and Robby the Robot . Or a parent and child . Only Pixar could pull off a story about robots in love with this much success . It 's a credit to the animators that they were able to create believable emotions in these beeping hunks of computer-generated metal . A beautiful sci-fi tale complete with all the feel-good vibes and fantastic , cutting-edge visuals we 've come to expect from a film wearing the Pixar name . Offers a touching robot romance , visuals as artful as they are state-of-the- art , and vital messages about environmental and personal health . A hilarious , heartfelt and extraordinary comedy adventure that pushes animation to new heights . 	Wall-E 's stellar visuals testify once again to Pixar 's ingenuity , while its charming star will captivate younger viewers -- and its timely story offers thought-provoking subtext .
rudy Sean Astin is utterly winning ... [ A ] well-crafted piece of middle-American uplift . An inspirational , upbeat parable about the tenacity of the human spirit . Indiana has been very good to director David Anspaugh and writer Angelo Pizzo . Well acted but overly familiar and sentimental sports tale of the underdog With its faithful rendering of a true inspirational story , Rudy earns its sentiment ... an irresistable inspirational movie for all ages . [ Blu-ray ] The film is so uplifting , I felt like calling up Lou Holtz for brunch . An inconsequential , if moving , contribution to the sports-movie genre . Sentiment trumps politics . It 's a moderately entertaining film , with a message and content appropriate for the whole family . What it lacks is focus . 	Though undeniably sentimental and predictable , Rudy succeeds with an uplifting spirit and determination .
legend of zorro Call this Zorro , the Dull Blade . La Leyenda es tan slo la sombra de lo que fue La Mscara ... In this busy sequel to 1998 's The Mask of Zorro , Antonio Banderas looks a little older , Catherine Zeta-Jones snares a bigger role , and the powerful charms of both are weighed down by an absurdly plot-heavy script . Innocuous and with more than a few laughs and rousing moments , it could make for passable family entertainment some rainy afternoon . But if you remember the first movie , it 'll feel like something 's missing . Here , even Banderas sounds like he 's having a hard time sounding authentic . A 'funny family action film ' in the Fantastic Four mold that is , a movie whose key qualification as kid entertainment is that it is n't good enough for grownups . The Legend of Zorro kicks off with a ridiculously over-the-top action sequence that feels as though it 'd be more at home in The Three Amigos ... Antonio plays drunk like a man who has never been one , and Catherine speaks Spanish like a woman who would n't touch a burrito without rubber gloves and a surgical mask . The passionless string of the hoariest clichs is burnished with the phony luster of an I Ca n't Believe It 's Not Butter commercial , and its plot seems to have been amalgamated by a computer program . Though there 's worse entertainment around , there may be more people rabid for the return of Prohibition than for a Zorro sequel seven years after the fact . 	Zorro can survive a lot of things , but it looks like he ca n't survive marriage .
dont come knocking There are so many good performances here . ... the long-awaited reunion of writer-actor Sam Shepard and German filmmaker Wim Wenders yields only mixed results . Burdened with uneven acting and portentous dialogue , the film has one important saving grace . Franz Lustig 's cinematography exquisitely captures the grandeur and loneliness of the American West . This is the Diet Coke of existentialism . One calorie . Not existential enough . It 's a beautiful mess , but it 's a mess all the same . At times the film is labored and forced . Has the quirkiness we 've come to expect and relish in a Wim Wenders movie . Suffers badly from an emotional aimlessness . That the movie does n't deepen so much as trail off is a frustrating but fitting embodiment of a protagonist who 's never taken responsibility for anything . [ Wenders and Shepard ] ramble the stark countryside , two filmmakers in search of meaning . Interesting , beautiful to watch , but pointless . 	The cinematography conjures beautifully evocative landscapes , but aside from that , the film is meandering and pointless .
1083414-parent trap Quaid and Richardson are appealing and have believable chemistry together . And Hendrix is a real hoot , as are scene-stealers Lisa Ann Walter and Simon Kunz , playing James and Elizabeth 's hired help . The lavish , super-cute new version of The Parent Trap is a remake of the 1961 Hayley Mills hit , which was seriously adorable in its own right New pic is slick , sentimental and exceptionally well cast , with enough cross-generational appeal to suggest strong commercial potential . A delightful remake hits the screen that is every bit as fun and entertaining as the Hayley Mills original This 1998 romantic comedy mostly bores with its cumbersome exposition and close-ups of trivial objects scattered throughout lackluster montage sequences . Richardson and Quaid , who is beginning to resemble Harrison Ford in his rumpled mode , have great chemistry . It 's a shame it takes so long for the movie to bring them together to demonstrate it . This is a classy adaptation , devoid of kiddie toilet humor and cartoon violence ; it features a fully developed story , and it takes its time setting up the premise and letting it unfold . ... exactly the sort of easy-going , endlessly engaging family film that seems to have become an unusually rare breed in this day and age . The filmmaking team creates a sparkling new Parent Trap worthy of an original that featured Hayley Mills and Maureen O'Hara . The technology for twinning a single young actress is considerably more seamless than it was in 1961 , and Lohan is a perky charmer . 	Writer-director Nancy Meyers takes the winning formula of the 1961 original and gives it an amiable modern spin , while young star Lindsay Lohan shines in her breakout role .
the bourne legacy The Bourne Legacy moves on , and takes us on a spirited journey . Stow your baggage , and it 's a trip well worth taking . The rather serious and businesslike film offers a handful of intense action scenes and some satisfying spy-vs-spy combat . The Bourne films have more than just overstayed their welcome and outlasted the Ludlum books -- they 've been Van Halenized , with an abrupt change of frontman and a resulting dip in personality . It adheres pretty strictly to the BOURNE formula , but LEGACY is still a very entertaining spy thriller . Renner is shaping up to be an ace leading man . It falters a little bit and it 's really just an effort to keep a lucrative franchise alive without its iconic star , but it still seems to have plenty of life left in it . Everything Gilroy and crew concoct only serves to mock the excellence and passion with which Greengrass delivered his films . In the original Bourne series it was `` fight fight fight/story story story . '' It had that balance . This one has a lot of talking for a long time . We get the point , and then they keep talking and talking ... let 's have a fight already . an uneven start to a new franchise that may need a director with a completely different vision in order for it to be truly born again . The Bourne Legacy exists only as a failed attempt to squeeze more juice out of a once-reputable franchise , which is hardly a legacy worth leaving . 'Bourne ' again ? I do n't think so . 	It is n't quite as compelling as the earlier trilogy , but The Bourne Legacy proves the franchise has stories left to tell -- and benefits from Jeremy Renner 's magnetic work in the starring role .
lord of war This is Niccol 's bravest movie to date , and it is an unquestionably brilliant work . That the CIA engages in these activities with all sorts of Orlovs no doubt slithering around in the mix somewhere , is a far more intriguing huge chunk of vital information that sadly never made it to the screen . The high point is Niccol 's script , which turns weighty subject matter into dark comedy . What a total misfire . it 's a point weakly made , with depressingly little to back it up His heavy-handedness and inability to humanize and explain his hero mean that even the choir Niccol is preaching to wo n't be moved by Lord of War . When Niccol allows the movie to stop and breathe for a while , it 's often powerful . There are the makings here of a really good feature or an even better documentary , but as it stands , Lord of War is not quite either . Amid all the spent bullets and criticisms of our current president , there still is room for irony in `` Lord of War . '' Unintentional , yes , but it 's there . Gripping and unforgettable . 	While Lord of War is an intelligent examination of the gun trade , it is too scattershot in its plotting to connect .
death race If you 're a fan of Gone in 60 Seconds or The Fast and the Furious , you wo n't look at your watch while the movie is going on , and you wo n't feel conned out of your money when it 's over . If you like testosterone with your octane , this is your adrenalin fix . If it 's not the kind of rush you 're into , do n't blame writer-director Anderson who gives you what his title promises . Paul W. S. Anderson 's noisy , nonsensical remake fails to hold together even in its own paper-thin world . An orgasmic mix of on-road mayhem that plays at 1000 miles per hour ! Marvel in some terrifically-choreographed stunt The main problem with the new film is that it tries to make the whole thing credible , whereas the original never tried to make any sense . While the tone is right , the action is cobbled together in such a way that the only thing viewers will experience is motion sickness . A rabble-rousing , futuristic gas guzzler , directed with the pedal to the metal and a surprising minimum of visual incoherence . The flick is mindless fun . Any guy who wears Chuck Taylors , kills people in amazing ways and just spouts off amazing dialogue is totally cool in my book . It 's exactly what you expect ... and that 's part of its problem . There is n't one surprise in this movie , not one , which is a good reason why it feels so hammered out and routine . Of all the Z-movies in the Roger Corman catalog , they had to remake Death Race 2000 . 	Mindless , violent , and lightning-paced , Death Race is little more than an empty action romp .
head on 2005 A gloomy fairy-tale version of a Hollywood romantic film that barely gets past its gloomy outlook on life . Heartbreaking in the best way . Akin 's great strength is that he 's much more interested in the individual demons that drive people into walls , regardless of how they 're raised . The most honestly electrifying film I 've seen in years , Fatih Akin 's thundering character piece completely captures the joy , fear , and self-loathing of bottoming out . It 's Unel 's turn as Cahit that really impresses . Head-On does n't sound like a lot of fun , but it keeps you on edge , laughing nervously , appalled and , against all odds , entertained . ... Well and fearlessly acted , and the writer-director ( Fatih Akin ) is determined to follow her story to a logical and believable conclusion , rather than letting everyone off the hook with a conventional ending . Like pornography for the eternally depressed , Head-On is absorbing , yet far from appealing . In its breathlessly claustrophobic way the movie is vital and passionate , and lit with a lyric beauty that washes over love scenes and violent acts alike . Like the film 's odd couple , [ Head-On ] does n't know when to say when . 	A raw , provocative drama about star-crossed love and the lives of immigrants caught between the traditional and modern .
transformers dark of the moon Transformers : Dark Of The Moon is one of the best blockbuster I 've seen in years . No other action film can compare to what is undoubtedly Michael Bay 's magnum opus , this is the film to beat this summer ! Nowhere near as jaw-droppingly racist as the previous two installments . Is that damning with faint praise ? Better than the second film in the franchise , this film is still as hollow and unimportant as its predecessor . Intensely juvenile , casually sexist , and blatantly stupid in ways that few if any over the age of `` T for Teen '' or bereft of a Y chromosome could enjoy . [ 3D Blu-ray ] Despite an over-long and underwhelming build-up , the final hour of Dark of the Moon is an all-out action fest with some of the coolest visuals ever put to film . By a thin margin , the best film in the series . Funnier . But that 's not saying much . You either take it on faith that the succession of scenes and exposition actually add up to a story and enjoy the ride , or sink 2 1/2 hours into the most expensive abstract disaster film ever made . Remarkable action set pieces and stunning effects , but this third outing of Transformers is sometimes just as clunky and irritating as the second . The third outing for a herd of toys that should have stayed in their boxes . If you like mindless spectacle , this is undoubtedly the frontrunner so far this year . 	Its special effects -- and 3D shots -- are undeniably impressive , but they are n't enough to fill up its loud , bloated running time , or mask its thin , indifferent script .
1221112-che Superbly directed , intriguingly non-traditional biopic with a terrific central performance from Benicio Del Toro . Enduring over four hours of Guevara wandering in the jungle will leave audiences more fatigued than enlightened . Mr. Soderbergh once again offers a master class in filmmaking . As history , though , Che is finally not epic but romance . It takes great care to be true to the factual record , but it is , nonetheless , a fairy tale . It 's a fight with your bladder and attention span worth waging . In so many ways , Soderbergh 's film does the right things , usually by omission . Why , then , does it feel slightly wrong ? An epic life becomes an epic movie in Steven Soderbergh 's brilliant four-hour-plus look at two chapters in the life of revolutionary Ernesto 'Che ' Guevara . These are films that are certainly thought out clearly but not nearly felt enough . While Soderbergh is not entirely in thrall to the legend of Che , this is not the most critical of portraits . The film marches along at its own disinterested pace , rarely explaining which moments might be important than others or even the roles of some key characters . For all the movie 's narrative momentum , Che retains the air of a study exercise -- of an interest brilliantly explored . How else to explain one 's total flatness of feeling at the climax of each movie ? 	Though lengthy and at times plodding , Soderbergh 's vision and Benicio Del Toro 's understated performance ensure that Che always fascinates .
road to el dorado The animation is certainly impressive , but the story and music are much less so . The gags hit more often than they miss , but the unbroken stream of shtick grows old . Kline and Branagh , both good comedians , put a lot of zest into their roles , which makes this plundering mission more than just diverting . A film as easy to enjoy as it is to watch . It does not represent engaging entertainment for parents as well as their children . Immerses the viewer with vivid color and awe-inspiring artwork from the first frame . An exuberant , lighthearted adventure yarn . The animators ' talents and diligence have been corrupted on every front . Between the endless comic bickering and the mediocre score ... El Dorado is conspicuously light on charm . It 's animated fluff , separated from the eye-candy you see on the Cartoon Network only in its length and high production values . 	Predictable story and thin characters made the movie flat .
1194825-phoebe in wonderland The intentions ... are good , and the picture boasts a fine lead performance , but ultimately ... it 's just a fancy disease-of-the-week movie that comes off confused and overly cute . For all its cop-outs , Phoebe still trumps the 'how to be a better person ' hoo-hah of so many middlebrow dramas , if only because the problems it depicts are real , not overcooked reactions to trumped-up traumas . Barnz shows a firm directorial hand , most impressively by keeping the troupe of child actors from becoming cloyingly adorable . But despite a unique and refreshing vision , he fails his film by explaining its mysteries . Believable and engaging , Fanning nearly renders the ensuing bore watchable It leaves you frustrated and annoyed . Barnz arbitrarily posits a nonsensical series of school `` rules '' to embody conformity , while imagination is repped by Tourette syndrome . An uneven , unfocused amalgamation of ideas and moods that is at times deeply moving nonetheless . ... has the advantage of having the marvelous Elle Fanning in its title role . She gives a performance of nuance and intensity ... It 's a rare thing when a labor of love turns out to be worth both the labor and the love . There 's no denying the cast ( which also includes Bill Pullman and Campbell Scott ) is terrific and that first time writer/director Daniel Barnz has stacked the deck for his precious indie flick . 	Blessed with a good cast , Phoebe 's heart is in the right place , but its execution is dicey .
all is lost 2013 'Captain Phillips ' was n't the only see-worthy vessel of 2013 . All Is Lost boils down the art of filmmaking to the essential parts , making even the slightest decisions evident and powerful . All is Lost is a testament to a great actor , an experimental piece of cinema and a bit of a bore . The sort of unique , uncompromising movie that immediately undercuts the 'They do n't make em like they used to ' complaints . This is one man , alone , facing death . Redford is playing himself , and he 's not playing around . Who is this sailor ? Where does he come from ? Chandor never sees fit to tell us . His hero remains a deliberate stencil , defined solely by the crisis around him and the actions he takes . As an actor , Redford feels impenetrable which may be why it 's easy to project yourself onto him , but the title , like the protagonist , stands like a dare to reverse fate . The low tech nature of All is Lost accentuates the primal ( physical ) nature of this struggle , while the technical prowess of Gravity emphasizes its more metaphysical ( and less interesting ) nature Chandor , who demonstrated a vivid talent for dialogue , mood , and characterization in the Wall Street meltdown movie Margin Call , here displays an ability to furiously carve up and then integrate a confined space . I ultimately admired it more as a high degree-of-difficulty achievement than as a film 	Anchored by another tremendous performance in a career full of them , All Is Lost offers a moving , eminently worthwhile testament to Robert Redford 's ability to hold the screen .
naked gun from the files of police squad Not quite up to Airplane ! or Top Secret ! , but there are still laughs aplenty . Hi-larious . Shame about the sequels . The Naked Gun is hugely funny , but it`s also liberating-precisely because it centers its aim on that cold , closed system and blows it apart . The straight lines are shattered ; the empty spaces in the images are packed full until they burst . The proud regard in which this farce holds bad taste makes it endearing . The Naked Gun is destined to become a cult comedy classic . If the holiday run doesn`t make a bundle , the returns on the video cassette will . For those who savor silliness , The Naked Gun is humor heaven . Nielsen in particular is superb , cracking his faade for only the biggest of jokes . One of the greatest comedies ever made . The laughs do n't stop . The determinedly juvenile gags never stop flowing . It would have been nothing without Leslie Nielsen , but this was one of the funniest slapstick comedies of the 1980s . 	The Naked Gun is chock full of gags that are goofy , unapologetically crass , and ultimately hilarious .
alexander Colin Farrell is woefully miscast in the lead , but that 's the least of Alexander 's problems because the film is a disaster on an epic scale : sprawling , messy , incoherent and an early contender for one of the worst movies of 2005 . Sluggish , unsmiling , and almost as limp as the feather fans with which our heroes are gently aerated on their trip to the Hanging Gardens of Babylon . Our history teachers may have been bores , but at least the bell rang before us students became comatose . This movie is unremittingly dull , visually unappealing , narratively muddled , inadvertently campy , wretchedly performed -- and that 's just for starters . Alexander meet Ivan ; you 're both terrible ... it seems fairly clear that [ Alexander 's ] life just is n't interesting enough to warrant an entire movie ( particularly one that runs almost three hours ) . Not just a bad movie but a bad movie of truly epic proportions . A thudding bore , when what it should have been is an operatic testament to unchecked ambition . The battle scenes are bloody wonderful , but the rest of it plays out like a badly edited three-hour History Channel bio featuring pretty people . Ponderous , fails to make us really care for Alexander , and is even more directionless than the Great one wandering about Asia after seven long years . 	Even at nearly three hours long , this ponderous , talky , and emotionally distant biopic fails to illuminate Alexander 's life .
manchurian candidate The Manchurian Candidate does a fine job of reviving the paranoid thriller genre in this engrossing tale of politics , corporate power and mind control . [ Director ] Demme is n't so locked into a classic script that he ca n't find his own ethos , his own pulse , and his own unseen fears . A rather decent imitation in the end with political subtext and very good performances . On its own terms , demme 's update is an aborbing pulp fare , but as a remake of the superb 1962 film , it leaves much to be desired . It is as shocking now as it was forty years ago , but nothing in the 2004 version approaches that level of intensity , intelligence , or audacity . Demme 's filmmaking has lost none of its jazz . Demme has taken a story we thought we knew and , while making its outlines mostly recognizable , rotated it into another dimension of conspiracy . It 's a strong , brilliantly acted , well-timed drama , working as a companion piece , and not a replacement , to the original . To really enjoy this movie I think you have to have a small device implanted in your brain . This sleek and supple thriller features powerhouse performances but never quite persuades us that it has anything to add to the cold war classic . 	While not the classic its predecessor is , this update is well-acted and conjures a chilling resonance .
brokeback mountain If you have n't read the story before you see the movie , read it after . And then go see what is arguably the year 's best movie . Lush scenery encircles two laconic characters in this static movie . Brokeback Mountain is not to be missed . An elegant thoroughbred of a movie , Brokeback Mountain is a surprisingly conventional , gloriously beautiful , tragic love story - that just happens to be between two men . Brokeback Mountain is an epic love story about gay cowboys and that , in itself , is something . Otherwise , the film is not one to get particularly excited over . Men finding each other in a vast wilderness should be no big deal , but conservatives would have you believe it shakes the earth off its axis . * Lee makes their relationship epic in its reality and minuteness Nearly every frame of this movie is elegant and beautiful . Annie Proulx 's heartbreaking story of two cowboys who fall in love has been faithfully translated onto the screen in Ang Lees landmark film . There is very little in the cold , clear air of Brokeback Mountain that is n't first rate [ although ] its argument may , for many of us , already seem strangely under- and overdone . The best movie of the year . 	A beautiful , epic Western , Brokeback Mountain 's love story is imbued with heartbreaking universality thanks to moving performances by Heath Ledger and Jake Gyllenhaal .
gandhi Attenborough 's profound epic spotlighting one of the 20th century 's most prolific spiritual men of peace . Kingsley 's portrayal of Gandhi is impeccable and inspirational to boot Overshadowing even Ben Kingsley 's astonishing , transcendent performance in his first major screen role is a larger , more formidable presence : that of Gandhi himself . While Kingsley ( who took one of eight Oscars ) is the glue that holds this epic piece together , you must relish a cast that includes John Gielgud , Edward Fox , John Mills , Martin Sheen and Roshan Seth . Attenborough 's heavy-handed direction nearly derails the film , but Kingsley 's performance saves the day -- a rare thing of beauty , a joy that will be with us forever . Once in a long while a motion picture so eloquently expressive and technically exquisite comes along that one is tempted to hail it as being near perfect . ... a huge , sprawling , old-fashioned epic ... yet it manages also to maintain an intimacy with its subject that helps us to understand Gandhi as a person as much as an icon . Brilliant biography will engage preteens and up . A remarkable experience . Tthe film Gandhi is more stuffy than stately , more prestigious than prodigious . It never quite captures the essence of Gandhi , or the influence he exerted on other leaders , including Martin Luther King . It 's a broad but shallow river of information . Richard Attenborough 's Gandhi is every bit as sumptuous as everyone had expected . 	Director Richard Attenborough is typically sympathetic and sure-handed , but it 's Ben Kingsley 's magnetic performance that acts as the linchpin for this sprawling , lengthy biopic .
bourne ultimatum ... the exquisite consistency and thrill level of the Bourne trilogy continues to astonish and delight ... It is exhilarating , and when it is over , you just want to get right back in line to ride it again . Anything James Bond can do , it seems , Jason Bourne can do , too . It may seem odd to praise a big-budget action flick for its maturity , but Paul Greengrass ' The Bourne Ultimatum unequivocally proves that a summer blockbuster need n't be brainless to be exciting . Canny dialogue , solid performances , and virtuoso editing and scoring make `` The Bourne Ultimatum '' a thrill ride you wo n't soon forget . A hell of a show . A wildly kinetic thrill-ride that manages to respect your intelligence with smart writing and fine performances while still jolting your adrenaline levels to unsurpassed heights with jaw-dropping action setpieces A satisfying conclusion to an excellent trilogy , The Bourne Ultimatum is an exciting , intelligent and impeccably directed thriller . The Bourne Ultimatum leaps , scampers , scraps and drives its way into the pantheon of all-time great action movies . Jason Bourne , the character , may not be as memorable as some other action hero icons , but he has qualities that impress . 	The Bourne Ultimatum is an intelligent , finely tuned non-stop thrill ride . Another strong performance from Matt Damon and sharp camerawork from Paul Greengrass make this the finest installment of the Bourne trilogy .
get low At this stage of his career you could watch Duvall mow the lawn and be transfixed and enraptured . No matter how many wily old Southern coots and rascals Robert Duvall has played , he always finds a way to play another one and make him a fresh , unique presence . Get Low is a movie to savor for the exceptional performances . Get Low is an unexceptional film , but Duvall 's presence elevates it beyond all expectation , , , sits there inert on the screen expecting to be admired rather than actually creating an experience worthy of your admiration . Robert Duvall can do no wrong . It 's Duvall , spooky , sly , and sad , who makes all the props and the plot twists seem real . There 's a sneaky sense throughout that too much significance and import has been put on what is not much more than a shaggydog tale . Yet when the old dog in question is Robert Duvall , you can hardly begrudge the filmmakers for giving it a pat . First-time director Aaron Schneider cut his teeth as a cinematographer , so it 's no wonder Get Low is so meticulously and beautifully shot . As if it even needs to be said , Robert Duvall really is great as Felix Bush ; he reveals himself so slowly and steadily , as to unveil facets of his character and personality only when he sees fit . It 's a performance that deserves a better screenplay . 	Subtle to a fault , this perfectly cast ensemble drama is lifted by typically sharp performances from Robert Duvall and Bill Murray .
jeepers creepers What it lacks in studio-level finesse it more than makes up for with unrelenting imagination and a creepily visceral punch . As long as the film refrains from revealing its monster , Jeepers Creepers builds up a mood of sinister expectation . Once its bat-winged supernatural thingamajig appears , the beast is n't half as horrifying as you imagined . Jeepers Creepers gets down and dirty , respecting its genre enough to make it seem vibrant , fresh and , in a warped way , real . You know the part in scary movies where you 're not sure what is going on and the suspense is killing you , but then you find out what 's going on and it 's stupid ? This is it . The best thing to happen to the horror genre since 1999 's groundbreaking The Blair Witch Project . True , unrelenting horror that is rarely found , ironically enough , in the horror genre . One Judd Nelson , 164 breaks , and 986 spots short of a USA cable movie . A standard-issue , ineptly executed serving of the genre 's staples , from skeptical cops to an all-knowing psychic , on hand to explain everything about the demonic force behind the body count . One of the most terrifying horror movies to come along in years ... Salva ( Powder ) , directing from his own screenplay , develops Jeepers Creepers in such a way that it offers plenty of shock scares as well as a gradually building sense of menace . 	Jeepers Creepers has a promising start . Unfortunately , the tension and suspense quickly deflates into genre cliches as movie goes on .
we steal secrets the story of wikileaks 2013 Gibney , a prolific and skilled documentarian , marshals and organizes a raft of information as deftly as anyone could wish . But his conclusions are murkier than they might be . Sometimes it takes a feature-length documentary to stitch together a story we think we already know . Even the movie 's title , or rather the source of it , is a surprise . The sequence in which Manning confides in former hacker Adrian Lamo and gets turned in to the FBI supplies the kind of human drama that has made Gibney 's work so engrossing in the past . Future historians will find the ideal chronicle of our era in the superbly crafted `` We Steal Secrets . '' In truth , there 's little in Alex Gibney 's film that wo n't be familiar to attentive news watchers , but this skilled documentarian has mastered the art of condensing a vast and complex amount of information into a gripping and entertaining package . Truth is an endangered species in this war , but Gibney 's thoughtful movie suggests Manning might be its greatest casualty . With a subject matter that oddly feels both timely and out-of-date , this documentary is packed with telling details about WikiLeaks , Although it gets muddy as it delves into the lives of founder Julian Assange and whistleblower Bradley Manning . Noxious government activities may warrant exposure , but Gibney points out that the whistleblowers can be pretty flawed too . Words on the screen , their power to free you , and also entrap you - if this is n't the internet 's deadly blessing , what is ? 	As fascinating as it is provocative , We Steal Secrets : The Story of Wikileaks presents another documentary triumph for director Alex Gibney , as well as a troubling look at one of the more meaningful issues of our time .
what she knew Tamblyn 's surprisingly measured performance commands attention . Powerfully acted , intimate drama . Brougher 's film would seem more like the drudge work of a lot of made-for-TV melodramas if it were n't for its plausibly raw suburban atmosphere and the zone of intimacy established by both co-producer Swinton and , especially , Tamblyn . A cerebral , female empowerment flick which takes its cues from empathy and understanding as opposed to two-fisted testosterone . Thought-provoking and mesmerising . Most persuasive as a realist family drama made by a writer-director whose forte is the accretion of quotidian detail that , as much as any crisis , tells us who her characters are . A muted psychological mystery . Tamblyn 's performance is a delicate balancing act ; she has to stealthily reveal who Stephanie is to us while still holding back the most vital information until the very end . In addition to the two female leads , filmmaker Brougher does exceptionally commendable work . Tells a distinctly ( sometimes wrenching ) feminine tale without making it only relative to Oprah watchers and talk-show bingers . 	The premise has all the trappings of melodrama , but the excellent performances give the characters complexity and empathy .
1163536-unconscious Oristrell is a modern day Woody Allen , although with a better sense of rhythm and naughty buffoonery . You 'll laugh from corners of your subconscious you did n't know you had . Laboring in the wide shadow of Almodvar and lacking much in the way of visual distinction , Unconscious compensates with its cast 's full-tilt commitment to rip-snorting farce . A well-observed , sideways portrait of the day , Unconscious is a little gem . [ Director Joaquin ] Oristrell 's comedic sense only seems to succeed in spurts , and he often burdens the proceedings with a theatrical and contrived air that undermines the humor . If necessary , just see it twice : Read it the first time , watch it the second . Everything you always wanted to know about sex , and then some . A bawdy , early Woody Allen-esque slapstick comedy ! The comedy is too broad , lacking the subtlety that the film 's high-brow intentions require . Even with nothing more redeeming than a lot of good one-liners , Unconscious has a charm that your ego , superego and id can all enjoy . We should be thankful for the wit and style of Joaqun Oristrell 's film . Spanish writer/director Joaquin Oristell brings 2006 to a mostly delightful close with Unconscious , a clever and sweetly risqu period farce brimming with frothy charm and tongue-in-cheek wit . 	A comedy that tackles outrageous subjects ( pornography , transvestism , bisexuality and drug abuse ) with both grace and mischievous glee .
16 blocks The one bright spot in all this is Mos Def 's performance . 16 Blocks fails to impress as either an action film or a buddy movie . Almost every effect it reaches for falls short . Its dialogue is sassy , its plotting is taut ( maybe too taut , as key segues are AWOL ) , but 16 Blocks has more on the brain than mere distraction . It aims to save souls . 16 Blocks can happily sit alongside Inside Man as an example of a well-made , superbly-acted , intelligent thriller . More of these , please . An action thriller exactly like every other . a polished , professional , by-the-book approach to the improving real-time plot strategy . 16 Blocks seems as if it has been around the block a time or two . 16 Blocks is a police procedural in the change-your-life spirit of Oprah . And I say this with the deepest respect for both genres . Deftly directed by action veteran Richard Donner , 16 Blocks drops the viewer directly into the action , which relies on the element of surprise -- no small feat given today 's genre-savvy audiences . El oficio del director Richard Donner convierte a este policial de rutina en un digno entretenimiento . Ni ms ni menos . 	Despite strong performances from Bruce Willis and Mos Def , 16 Blocks is a shopworn entry in the buddy-action genre .
they live Piper is easily the star of the show , making They Live Carpenter 's best film -- I do n't care what you say . Cheesy fun from the 1980s . Apparently the ( rent ) alien invaders ( this ) never read the studies ( movie ) that proved that ( it ) subliminal advertising ( ai n't ) does n't work ( bad ) . Probably one of the most subversive films to have come out of Hollywood in decades , They Live is a welcome return to form by legendary cult film director John Carpenter . It 's a little bit V and a little bit Lethal Weapon . A little bit `` 1984 '' and a little bit Rambo . It 's got sledgehammer political satire , humor , goofiness and little bit of Wrestlemania thrown in to boot . Credibility is n't the problem with John Carpenter 's They Live ... but execution is . As is often the case with Carpenter , the concept is better than the execution . All in all , an entertaining ( if ideologically incoherent ) response to the valorization of greed in our midst . Behold the message as articulated by John Carpenter 's sublime sci-fi opus : `` I 'm giving you a choice : Either put on these glasses , or start eating that trashcan . '' A fantastically subversive film , a nifty little confection pitting us vs them , the haves vs the have-nots . 	A politically subversive blend of horror and sci fi , They Live is an underrated genre film from John Carpenter .
over the hedge The overblown approach to the gags is a great return to classic cartoon styles . If Over the Hedge aims solely to entertain , it does so in a way that 's mildly amusing but mostly hackneyed . If it aims to instruct , it weakens its own argument with the plethora of product tie-ins . An endearingly cheerful animated feature from DreamWorks . A cookie-cutter money-spinner , finely tooled for maximum profit , but utterly lacking timeless charm . Spends none of the time that Michael Fry and T. Lewis ' daily comic strip does staring at the stars or asking questions of the Tree That Knows Stuff , but the movie does offer an amusing animals'-eye-view on the absurdity of suburbia . With more attention to the fundamentals of narrative , Over the Hedge would n't be so over the top . Over the Hedge may be 'just ' a cartoon . But it 's also a biting and funny jab at SUV-MSG Nation . It 's a fast-paced show in which all is not as it seems , one characters has a sinister hidden agenda , and the ensemble must work together to solve puzzles . A surprisingly very good animated adventure that relishes in simplicity ... Kids will love it , and so will their parents . 	Even if it 's not an animation classic , Over the Hedge is clever and fun , and the jokes cater to family members of all ages .
national lampoons vacation Relive some of your own dreadful family vacation moments with National Lampoon 's comedy classic , Vacation . This boasts a great cast from start to finish , but the funniest moments in this film for me invariably come from Randy Quaid , who plays Chase 's dumb country cousin . A timeless comedy . Hysterical . Chevy Chase is hilarious as the dad obsessed with having a good time . The humor in Vacation also taps into something beyond the trials and travails of a road trip gone wrong . National Lampoon 's Vacation is a comedic cross-country adventure like no other , thanks to Chevy Chase and the rest of the Griswold family . Agreeable star comedy . The result is not so much a comedy about American values as a 2,500 mile skid on a banana skin . The visual gags come thick and fast , and are about as subtly signposted as the exit markers on a freeway . Though lacking in narrative and comic sophistication , National Lampoon 's Vacation has something arguably more important : built-in , instant audience identification . [ Blu-ray ] The Griswolds are a national treasure . 	Blessed by a brilliantly befuddled star turn from Chevy Chase , National Lampoon 's Vacation is one of the more consistent -- and thoroughly quotable -- screwball comedies of the 1980s .
1007602-fly Cronenberg 's remake of The Fly is nothing to swat at ; this is an edgy and ambitious sci-fi showcase with inspired performances by the tandem of Goldblum and Davis One of the greatest , horror or otherwise . A masterpiece of tragic science fiction and Gothic horror ... One of the saddest explorations of love and loss captured in one of the most underestimated films of the '80s . The Fly seizes on our ingrained , instinctive horror of sexuality , the sense of shame that our fundamentally puritanical society ca n't help but teach us , and by confirming our worst fears , helps us , for a moment , to move beyond them . A true horror classic . Goldblum 's best screen performance . It left me itching for something less warped to identify with than a human fly . Finally ! A horror movie for adults ! Cronenberg at his peak , an artful and disturbing horror film blended with - of all things - a sharp romantic comedy . Too much of the good stuff ... 	David Cronenberg combines his trademark affinity for gore and horror with strongly developed characters , making The Fly a surprisingly affecting tragedy .
nacho libre The film 's sheer lack of everything that customarily passes for comic fuel -- energy , wit , character , fun , a plot -- renders Nacho Libre a torturous patience tester of the first order . It 's all good clean fun , as much a celebration of outsider absurdity as Napoleon Dynamite was . Jared Hess 's far too self consciously campy comedy that takes a one-note joke and beats that dead horse until it 's a fine paste splayed all over the ground A perfect storm of excessive mugging and catch-phrasery . A little Jack Black goes a long , long way ! In his endearingly ridiculous new comedy , Jack Black plays a half-Mexican , half-Scandinavian monastery cook from Oaxaca who moonlights as a masked wrestler . Tightly paced , fast as a whip and addictively entertaining . Very broad and very silly , it 's a doodle of a comedy -- a one-joke idea ( fat guy goes luchador ) padded out to feature length by Black 's willingness to do anything for a laugh . Another tale ( like 'Napoleon Dynamite ' ) of a dreamy misfit seeking recognition and innocent love in an appealingly hermetic land of living cartoon characters . Nacho Libre , with its relatively ( and refreshingly ) tame PG rating , is likely to thrill boys under 13 . But it may also evoke laughs even if you 're far removed from that demographic . 	At times hilarious , but other times offensive , Director Jared Hess is unable to recapture the collective charisma of his Napoleon characters , instead relying on a one-joke concept that runs out of steam . Sure to entertain the adolescents , however .
interpreter Does n't speak the language of love or suspense . Sydney Pollack has been a hit or miss director for 40 years . Unfortunately , The Interpreter is one of his misses . A thriller with a lot on its mind ( at least that 's what the filmmakers want us to believe ) but no heart to speak of . Its characters and situations feel phony . enthralling thriller with lots of twists and turns that keep you guessing until the end as the tension and drama rise . Layers of riveting intrigue build toward a finale weighed down with logistical loopholes ... Fairly decent entertainment . ... it 's the writing and exemplary supporting cast ( and the stunning United Nation locale ) that make `` The Interpreter '' a worthy entry into the political thriller genre With all these talented people , somebody should have noticed that the script needed a rewirte , and that it was emotionally distant . Something more interesting as a notion than engaging as a film . Sit through enough ordinary movies with less-than-stellar performances and you 'll understand the delight watching real pros at work . 	A polished and intelligent thriller , though marred by plot implausibilities .
as good as it gets Ties each of its loose ends into a neat little bow . Do n't take the title as truth . This film is not as good as it gets , even though it is pretty darn good . A black but realistic comedy about life and how it sucks and also how impossible it is to fall in love with someone sane , but still it 's no excuse for not enjoying yourself . An inflated TV show by a sitcom creator . Not only one of the best romantic comedies of the year , but one of the best films in ages . ... it coaxes us to be more open to each other , more compassionate , and more loving . A lovely act of cinematic evolution from confusion to enlightenment . Part of the appeal of this comedy is that Melvin 's transformation never gets sappy . Utterly false , like all sitcoms , but that 's not necessarily a terrible thing . A fairy-tale heartwarmer . 	James L. Brooks and Jack Nicholson , doing what they do best , combine smart dialogue and flawless acting to squeeze fresh entertainment value out of the romantic-comedy genre .
notes on a scandal There are brilliantly handled scenes of anger , embarrassment and humiliation , and brutal physical and emotional confrontations of great power . Patrick Marber 's adaptation of the Zo Heller novel improves upon the promise of the [ Dench/Blanchett ] pairing with a story that wastes no time on preliminaries as it descends -- gleefully -- into pitch-black comedy . What in Zoe Heller 's novel , upon which the film is based , served as a subtle undercurrent here is hammered upon to a desperate degree . Exacerbating the film 's ill-suited film noir-ish tone is Philip Glass ' intrusive score . A lot is wrong about Notes On A Scandal , starting with a frenetic Phillip Glass score that absurdly heightens nearly every scene in which it 's used , squeezing the wit out of what might 've been a wicked black comedy . How about bestowing the year 's most-overrated tag on Notes on a Scandal , an over-the-top melodrama that takes Zoe Heller 's first-rate page-turner and transforms it into something that 's neither here nor there . This internalised dramatic thriller makes the most of subtly perceptive writing , directing and acting . Judi Dench is not only a very talented actress , but also a very brave and versatile one . ... a thoroughly trashy piece of work ... The strength of the writing , and therefore the directing , is that it sees the scandal as a minor point in a human experience that is naturally corrupt , and cares more about how those on the inside choose to deal with their realities . Stages the story with a tastefulness both ponderous and dishonest 	In this sharp psychological thriller , Judi Dench and Cate Blanchett give fierce , memorable performances as two schoolteachers locked in a battle of wits .
hoosiers Any list of the best sports movies has to include Hoosiers . a high-spirited crowdpleaser , well-performed An enjoyable , if conventional and manipulative small-town sports melodrama , boasting strong turns from Gene Hackman and Dennis Hopper , who received his only acting nomination for his part . Shameless , yes , but open your eyes , close your mind , sit back and enjoy . This film 's very lack of surprise and sophistication accounts for a lot of its considerable charm . ... it 's easy enough to see why Hoosiers has become one of the most endearing sports movies in cinematic history . Basketball movies do n't get any better . Cloyingly nostalgic . It 's a movie that is all heart . Basketball fans will be weeping like babies . 	It may adhere to the sports underdog formula , but Hoosiers has been made with such loving craft , and features such excellent performances , that it 's hard to resist .
lassie There is an unabashed old-fashioned quality to the story-telling , not quaint , not fusty , but very much of another era -- and what a relief that is . An ode to the beleaguered people who face hardships , physical and emotional , with hopeful optimism . The one scene of Lassie standing alone on the highlands of Scotland is worth the price of admission . The best version by far of the Lassie story , an ocean away from the sappy June Lockhart TV series . It 's a rare work of substance , simplicity , and grace that deserves to be mentioned among the best features crafted for younger viewers in the last twenty years . This 11th Lassie big-screen adaptation is a dramatic and at times heartbreaking look inside the uncaring social classifications of that long-ago English era , with the storm clouds of coming world war swirling about . Dog and movie lovers , take note : Lassie has come home . Writer-director Charles Sturridge makes all the right moves in adapting the story , and treats it not just with the respect of a classic but the kind of intelligence , good taste and emotional sensitivity that kid movies rarely get . Lassie proves to be top dog in her latest feature film . There 's not much to grumble about : most of the performances are nicely honed , the cinematography and editing 's excellent and , despite the swooning strings , it 's not too sentimental . 	A beautifully-made retelling of the classic collie tale , one need not be a dog-lover to fall for Lassie .
waste-land A feel-good rarity that descends neither to cuteness nor sentimentality , does not editorialize , either , but lets subject , and subjects , show us what it 's all about . I do not mean to make their lives seem easy or pleasant . It is miserable work , even after they grow accustomed to the smell . But it is useful work , and I have been thinking much about the happiness to be found by work that is honest and valuable . One of the powers of great portraiture is its ability to make us wonder about the complete strangers captured within enigmatic works of art . Walker 's breezy film turns Muniz into a folk hero . And who am I to argue ? More self-conscious , subtle exploration than the dubious bleeding-heart PR stunt implied by its premise . As in her memorable Blindsight , in which sightless climbers took on Everest , Walker celebrates the indomitability of the human spirit . This is undoubtedly a bold raid into an unknown territory - both geographic and conceptual - that the prosperous classes prefer not to think about . `` Waste Land '' is a must-see PBS-style Cinderella story with true grit , a brilliant cast and an improbably big heart . ... an eye opening account of human dignity . Walker finds inspiration and strange beauty in the squalor . 	Waste Land begins with an eco-friendly premise , but quickly transforms into an uplifting portrait of the power of art and the dignity of the human spirit .
1013775-metropolis You 've seen the rest ; now see the best . Science fiction at its silliest and at its best . Although many shots are out of focus ( face it , movie cameras were still evolving in 1927 ) , some scenes look like they could have been shot last week , which makes Lang 's achievement all the more awe-inspiring . The restoration eliminates nearly all the distracting cracks and splices and stabilizes images that were previously jittery , allowing us to admire them in all their complex glory . For all that it was eviscerated soon after its January 1927 Berlin premiere , Fritz Lang 's masterpiece has been the matrix of movies over the past 83 years ... Moralistic science fiction at its maddest , Fritz Lang 's ambitious silent classic Metropolis still has the power to impress us with its inspired art direction and its expressionistic vision . The great Fritz Lang created this chilling 1926 evocation of a mechanized utopia run by underground slave labor . Few films have had such a striking impact on the history of cinema as Metropolis . Here 's a coincidence : The first must-see movie of 2010 is also the must-see movie of 1927 . The difference is that you can actually see it now . Or most of it . Essential viewing . 	A visually awe-inspiring science fiction classic from the silent era .
mid august lunch Mid-August Lunch is a sweet-spirited gem , warmly comic while showing the hassles of caring for aging relatives more honestly than 10 family sagas from Hollywood . The droll Mid-August is a tribute to the gentle skills of Italian filmmaker Gianni Di Gregorio , who not only wrote and directed this unhurried chamber piece but also starred in it as a character he named after himself . Shot handheld and mostly confined to the apartment , the film is ( despite some mild food tourism ) a delightful feat Underlying this amiable , thoughtful film is an assumption that age should bring with it respect - and however exasperated he gets , Gianni abides by this code completely . The beauty of this picture is that it does n't shy away from depicting the indignities of growing old - not the least of which is that none of your children wants to look after you - and yet manages to invest all of its elderly characters with dignity . As shimmering and insubstantial as heat haze ... an airy morsel that dissolves on the tongue , imparting only the faintest hint of flavor . The movie glows . Di Gregorio stars in the film as well as writing and directing , and a more charming mealtime companion you 're not likely to find . There 's no grand drama or payoff to sleepy Italian import Mid-August Lunch -- this is essentially Polaroid-type , snapshot cinema . But there is truth here , and in truth there is always some value . Appealingly acted by a mostly non-professional cast and propelled by a moving score , Mid-August Lunch proves how small can indeed be beautiful . 	Thoughtful , warm-hearted , and delightfully free of pretense , Mid-August Lunch offers viewers a light diversion with some surprising depth .
thing called love Aside from its blatantly commercial aspirations and predictable storyline , there is an appealing cast , enjoyable songs and some funny bits of business . River Phoenix gives a somnambulant impersonation of Christian Slater impersonating Jack Nicholson , and Samantha Mathis spends much of the movie trying to figure out exactly who her character is . The Thing Called Love charms and touches . It bears as little relation to the real Nashville as Altman 's 1975 feature , but director Peter Bogdanovich , the talented cast , and the credited and uncredited screenwriters are so busy conjuring up a charming world of their own that I did n't mind . Bogdanovich 's modest staging is occasionally awkward -- his kids still watch John Wayne movies at the drive-in -- but there 's a convincing sense of what Nashville 's like and how country music works . A highlight of Phoenix 's career Sometimes Bogdanovich is just too intelligent for his own good . While he hardly puts a foot wrong in his observation of shattered ambitions , his curse seems to be that his work will forever be unfashionable . It 's good enough to watch , but not good enough to re-watch . Perhaps there 's not much new to say about the dues and disappointments involved in breaking into the country music scene , but the scenes are fresh and the emotions real in Peter Bogdanovich 's tune-laden , mixed-mood drama . Peter Bogdanovich brings conviction but little else to this upbeat response to Robert Altman 's Nashville . 	The last film River Phoenix completed before his death , The Thing Called Love does n't have much new to say about show business , but it 's energetic and well acted .
beginners Life-affirming , endlessly witty , and beautifully realized cinematically , the seamlessly flowing Beginners is nigh perfection . That deceptively delicate surface masks a movie with an unflinchingly tough heart . Affectionate personal pic . ... a small wonder to behold . Mills fashions the set-up for an overwrought , thoroughly depressing character study into an oddly charming comedy . Virtually every moment of introspective tenderness mustered up by this trio ends up undermined by Mills ' super-precious execution . Deeply poignant and disarmingly personal . ... the pervasively uneven atmosphere is essentially heightened by the ongoing emphasis on off-the-wall elements . All the gimmicks in the storytelling ... ca n't camouflage the fact that the story itself was never quite worked out . Charmingly quirky and cheekily audacious , the story of a young man and the changes caused by his elderly father 's late-in-life revelations is crafted with sweetness and originality . Plummer 's turn as Hal the movie just seems to radiate importance . 	Wearing its twee heart on its sleeve , Beginners explores the depths of modern , multi-generational romance with wit and depth .
flicka J. Michael Muro 's gorgeous cinematography spreads the astonishing beauty of rural Wyoming across the Cinemascope screen . ... McGraw gives an appealingly understated performance ... It 's an old fashioned and reasonably satisfying family film that will work just as well if you wait for video . Flicka does not seem to be pandering to the dictates of Hollywood formula filmmaking , and everything about it seems structured to evoke that special love which young girls seem to universally feel for the equine species . Flicka is a great family flick , perfect for a dad-and-daughter date , a family film outing , and everyone who 's read and loved the book . A movie which seems designed to do nothing more than feature some pretty pictures of horses and possibly move a few units of a tie-in soundtrack . The apparent lesson of the movie ? Keep disobeying your parents and you 'll eventually get your way . Young kids may well find the story charming and identify with the headstrong Katy , while their parents are likely to find the situation quaint and a little dull . Perhaps the children will enjoy this , but I was just choked by the corniness ... Part of the point is that untamability , of `` spirit '' at least , is to be celebrated . Katie and the movie both argue that such a quality is inherently American . And the movie argues pretty loud . Alison Lohman , the 27-year-old actress who plays Katy , makes the whole thing worth watching . 	The rebellious protagonist will rally girls and children , but adults may find Flicka saddled with thin characters , over-the-top dialogue , and a plot that wanders into the countryside and never comes back .
masculine feminine No one was ever better at collecting a hodgepodge of ideas and making them work as a cohesive whole , as the voice of one hyper-intelligent , constantly frustrated commentator . Masculin , Fminin is a feisty experiment , and yet not what Godard truly wanted to do with the medium . But this , perversely , makes for a fresh , deeply stimulating and , arguably , more watchable film . Masculin Feminin is a film about young people set adrift in an uncertain , violent consumerist world of pop cultural influences without the social and intellectual mooring necessary to find their way through the morass It could shake up young viewers now as it 40 years ago , except that there 's no French New Wave momentum of film passion . Watching the movie now , 39 years after it was made , I 'm struck most by its sadness , its harshness , and its pessimism . May not have aged any better than Godard 's other films of the period , but that does n't mean Paul and company do n't continue to ask questions and spout the opinions of the newly enlightened . Not only does Paul 's battle with Madeleine represent a war between the sexes , but a clash between disparate philosophical and moral beliefs . This is take-no-prisoners cinema by an artist too honest to exempt himself from its scalding gaze . A withering satire . This is the Godard that fans would like to take to the grave : jaundiced , naughty , immediate , very much alive . 	A '60s time capsule stuffed with ideas about politics , pop culture , and the battle of the sexes , Masculine-Feminine is one of Godard 's classic black-and-white films .
ex machina A smart , accomplished piece of work that presses all the right buttons . Gleeson is terrific and Vikander , who stars in five other films this year alone , is a revelation . As is Ex Machina , a movie that looks like something destined to be savored , watched and re-watched endlessly over the years . Compelling , claustrophobic , cutting edge and clever , Ex Machina is as smart and satisfying as science fiction gets . Most movies do n't pass the smell test , let alone the Turing Test , but `` Ex Machina '' aces both with the sort of intelligence -- artificial or otherwise -- often absent from contemporary sci-fi . Garland has produced something seductively strange , consistently thought-provoking and admirably adult . More tricky than smart . With uncommon intelligence and the even more uncommon ability to look without blinking , Garland 's made the one of the best sci-fi films of the past several years , a wicked and wise parable of the near-now that 's honed to a gleam . `` Ex Machina '' is an exquisite puzzle box of a picture . It baffles . It unsettles . It intrigues . Garland sidles up to some large ideas , some more provocative than others , and his premise hints at the costs of perpetual , omnivorous surveillance . While some decisions made by characters in the final act feel rushed and even unwarranted , I was always interested to see where this story went . 	Ex Machina leans heavier on ideas than effects , but it 's still a visually polished piece of work -- and an uncommonly engaging sci-fi feature .
the-foot-fist-way Google the trailer . That should be enough . Apparently the writers thought Fred was so inherently funny they barely bothered to write jokes for him - and then thought those jokes were so funny they did n't need well-timed delivery . A raucous and often very funny examination of a man who is a loser in every possible respect . Stays doggedly true to its idiosyncratic off-kilter vibe . Milks the character and his foibles for all the laughs he 's worth -- which prove to be plenty . This could have been The Karate Kid done as The Office , but in the end drops to its knees as The Flat-Foot Ham-Fisted Way . My tolerance for the mockumentary form of comedy has curdled somewhat in the wake of the past decade 's serious subgenre overkill . I have read reviews from seemingly sensible critics who have found this one to be equally amusing , which would indicate that they are all on some wavelength that I am as yet not privy to or that I need to recalibrate my conception of the word `` sensible . '' Does this title mean I can put my foot AND my fist through the screen ? The film stops when the jokes do , making for an anti-climactic finale . But if The Foot Fist Way is more about promise than delivery , its creators are off to an impressive start . 	The rough edges and biting humor of this martial arts comedy will keep audiences laughing and cringing in turns .
the wind rises It 's probably the sweetest animated feature about an armaments designer you 'll ever see . This is an ambitiously epic movie flooded with dreams , all about dreams , with dreamy animation that resembles watercolor paintings compared with the harder , more metallic look of recent 3-D computer-generated animation . An emotionally generous and expansively detailed romantic fantasy . In terms of tone , visual beauty , and storytelling , The Wind Rises represents Miyazaki at the apex of his abilities . The film does n't take the obvious moralistic steps that could avert backlash - it 's pure Miyazaki , a perspective influenced by history and reflective of a 50-year career . With his vivid , gorgeous visuals - the film was nominated for an animation Oscar - and his penchant for dark fantasy , Miyazaki takes a straightforward tale and gives it an unexpected sideways kick . The view is beautiful , but the loftier aims of `` The Wind Rises '' fall short . Everything is invested with spirit : levers , flaps , and , of course , the wind . The swan song in an illustrious career . With its reference to Thomas Mann 's `` Magic Mountain '' , this is obviously a film geared to adults . But bring the kids since they will be enchanted by the airplanes , just as I was . Perhaps the greatest animated film ever made . 	The Wind Rises is a fittingly bittersweet swan song for director Hayao Miyazaki .
white noise Take every ghost-in-the-machine movie you 've ever seen -- Poltergeist , Frequency , The Mothman Prophecies , Dragonfly -- distill the worst parts , reassemble them , and you 've got Noise . For [ Keaton ] , a forgettable flick like this one is like a rehab stint in A ball for a big league pitcher White noise is intended to help you fall asleep . White Noise would never let you do that , though . It 's far too interested in a cacophony of cheap scares . A dopey , totally disposable grade B thriller . Were White Noise a little bolder , smarter and nastier , the frustrating questions its ending raises would have become fascinating talking points for the drive home . 'I see dead people ... if I jiggle the antenna a little , that is , ' no one says here , but they might as well . The only problem is that there 's just not that much of a reason to sit up and check out what all of the noise is about . The movie itself plays like a message from the dead , a communiqu from some inert movie world of lifeless clichs , emptily flashy style , wooden characters and moribund plot shtick . ... a clumsy thriller that botches its own high concept . It is inept , it is inane , and it is seemingly interminable . 	While there are some built-in scares , the movie is muddled and unsatisfying .
misery Great performances , but it really gets a little old . Caan and Bates are nothing short of hypnotic . Except for the flat , compromised ending , Reiner 's smooth direction and Goldman 's nicely structured script make this version of King 's novella enjoyable as a horror flick and psychological thriller , not to mention Kathy Bates ' superb turn as the wacko fan Misery is a blunt instrument that fractures the kneecaps more often than it tickles the funnybone . Unfortunately , what could have been a seamless psychological thriller is interrupted by violence that 's as gratuitous as it is sadistic . Superb ! Bates deserves her Oscar as the psychopath fan ; a deft blending of comedy and horror . A stunning , harsh drama that lingers in the memory because of its cruel strokes . Not as good as the book , but Kathy Bates is perfect Bates has a field day with her role , creating a quirky , memorable object of hate . 	Elevated by standout performances from James Caan and Kathy Bates , this taut and frightening film is one of the best Stephen King adaptations to date .
iron man Robert Downey Jr. , full-swing back into his acting genius , is exceptional as Iron Man . Life for Tony Stark is cool , and you can almost image him doing the Charlie Chaplain waddle across his workshop . Robert Downey , Jr. 's effortlessly nuanced performance as Tony Stark is a dark delight that combines pop-culture wit and genuine emotional depth . ... a slam-bang kickoff to the blockbuster movie season ... Lovingly tosses the American ego about like a cat with string . 'Iron Man ' is not only action packed , as expected , but it is also laced with a story that has substance and with some wit and romance added to please all ages . Just as Stark needs a device to keep his heart pumping , Iron Man requires Downey 's presence to keep the heart of this franchise alive . The fun of Iron Man , a Marvel adaptation in which a routine arc has been burnished with great elegance and skill , is the way that it heals the split , soldering the two halves of its hero into a single organically driven figure . It is light , rather than heavy metal , marked by invigorating war-machine FX and a smart and subtle acting performance , at least by the standards of this genre . Visual sizzle , top actors and a witty script , yet it could have been so much better if only it did n't try to cobble together a pacifist warrior . There 's a slightly depressed , going-through-the-motions feel to the entire show . 	Director Jon Favreau and star Robert Downey Jr. make this smart , high impact superhero movie one that even non-comics fans can enjoy .
la nana Deadpan , handheld technique allows director Sebastin Silva to mine mundane situations for subtle hazard but also to take his story in unexpected directions , initial reticence preserving the potential for surprise . Writer/director Sebastian Silva wisely focuses on character instead of caricature and has crafted a film that is surprisingly moving by the time it reaches its bittersweet final act . It 's tough and unsentimental , with a documentary aesthetic that belies the craft of the calibrated tension . A portrait of how an enthusiastic woman brings freshness and novelty into the life of a longtime maid who has sunk into exhaustion and depression A smart little gem from Chile . A tart , thoroughly engaging and often suspenseful mixture of psychodrama and social satire ... Silva and Saavedra get across the ennui and irony of a woman who 's been working diligently for two decades , only to find that her closest human relationships are with people who hold her job security in their hands . Saavedra totally embodies the role of Raquel , holed up in her disinfected cage , while Sergio Armstrong 's handheld cinematography underscores the claustrophobia of her existence . Here is a profound story of a woman who breaks out of a social cage that she maintained as much as her perceived masters . Is this two-dimensional , emotionally stunted and alienated character truly so lacking in any complexity , fascinating personal and cultural history of her own , or inner life ? It seems so , until the workingclass can make their own movies about themselves . 	Catalina Saavedra 's devastating performance would be reason enough to see The Maid , but Sebastian Silva 's empathetic direction and finely tuned script only add to the movie 's pleasing heft .
next stop wonderland Cheerful , accomplished and straightforwardly commercial , Next Stop Wonderland is basically the second best version of `` Sleepless in Seattle '' ever made ! Slight as it is , Wonderland charms . Gelfant is impeccable ! Brad Anderson 's stylish and original romantic comedy features a wonderful performance from Hope Davis . There 's not much to stop for in Wonderland . While I would n't say it revolutionizes the chick flick , it 's certainly more clever and endurable than most of them . Hope Davis shines ! What makes the movie work is the character of Erin , easily one of the most interesting and involving creations , male or female , of the past year . Davis is the main attraction of the movie . She looks like a delicate flower , but she 's smart and sarcastic ! A soulful , thoughtful comedy ! 	Endearing performances create characters you care about .
chinatown [ Nicholson 's ] performance is key in keeping Chinatown from becoming just a genre crime picture -- that , and a Robert Towne screenplay that evokes an older Los Angeles . Is Chinatown the best private eye film ever ? It may well be . Nearing its thirty-fifth anniversary , it deserves a reconsideration and a celebration . Jack Nicholson 's small-time detective Jake Gittes , like other noir heroes , suffers from a shadowy past and fears : For him , Chinatown is not just a place , but a spiritual landscape and a melancholy , fatalistic state of mind . See this film as many times as you can . Please . Superbly crafted Polanski . Chinatown ( 1974 ) is a superb , private eye mystery and modern-day film noir thriller . Its original , Award-winning screenplay by Robert Towne Unforgettable . You _can't_ forget it . It 's CHINATOWN . Like `` Casablanca , '' `` Chinatown '' ( 1974 ) represents a perfect storm of prodigious cinema talent coming together under an intoxicating noir setting , albeit of neo noir influence attributed to by the warm California sun . This film is flawless . 	As bruised and cynical as the decade that produced it , this noir classic benefits from Robert Towne 's brilliant screenplay , director Roman Polanski 's steady hand , and wonderful performances from Jack Nicholson and Faye Dunaway .
1084582-mighty joe young likely to please fans of the 1949 film as well as delight younger viewers who 've never heard of the simian hero before . The filmmakers forgot about the adults who pay to bring the target audience to the multiplex . ... a frustrating cartoon of a movie ... Middlin ' monkey business with Charlize Theron . Thrilling family fun . So slavishly formulaic , so deprived of an any inspiration of any kind , that it very well could have been written by a monkey . A family film about the heroics of a gorilla trying to stay alive in the face of human greed and violence . King Kong has never looked so ... drowsy . Sleepy , boring tale of kind-hearted gorilla gets old real quick , but with Charlize Theron though , Disney proves men can have dirty thoughts while their children are entertained . Hooray Charlize ! Although you could certainly do much worse , there is only one really distinctive quality about the film , and that is Charlize Theron 's charismatic performance . No muy buena , pero ofrece un buen rato de entretenimiento familiar 	Beguiling effects transcend a predictable plot .
1191742 changeling Image trumps performance . You will never see a film which so well proves the adage that fact is stranger than fiction . A film lacking in dramatic propulsion and actorly grace from Clint Eastwood , a director usually synonymous with both . Changeling fails because , despite its awful subject matter , it is n't very moving . Eastwood is too classical , too restrained a director to get inside his characters ; they feel like well-costumed showroom dummies . Suspenseful drama is heartbreaking , if overlong . Eastwood 's femme-driven thriller explores police corruption and social injustice in an old-fashioned , studio-era-like film that lacks much nuance or complexity but is nonetheless enjoyable . To see this film is to understand both how fragile and how essential our hopes for decency and truth are in a world that must be made to care about either one . Changeling is unforgettable ; for its extraordinary story , for Angelina Jolie 's haunting performance , for its subtly beautiful cinematography , for Clint Eastwood 's masterful filmmaking Every element , including the photography , the production design , and Eastwood 's own plaintive music score , seems close to perfection . For a director who knows how to balance histrionics with a lack of sentimentality ( see Mystic River ) , Eastwood is unable to modulate tone or performances here . 	Beautifully shot and well-acted , Changeling is a compelling story that unfortunately gives in to convention too often .
gravity 2013 This is a movie as much about death as it is about survival . Is n't just a great movie , it 's a great experience that frequently astonishes , captivates and embraces the challenge of raising the bar on what we should expect from modern day films . Its nimble , acrobatic camera movements are amazing constructions , effortlessly swinging from the vastness of being lost in a black universe to the intimacy of being inside an astronaut 's helmet . At once the most realistic and beautifully choreographed film ever set in space , Gravity is a thrillingly realized survival story spiked with interludes of breath-catching tension and startling surprise . ... a Worst-Space Scenario , in which everything that can go wrong does . It 's basically 'Sandra Bullock and the Terrible , Horrible , No Good , Very Bad Space Walk . ' The worst you can say about this claustrophobic , transporting and unbearably tense movie is that it 's so grand it spoils you into expecting even more . Prepare to return your jaw to its upright position . a masterpiece of both action and psychology A viscerally exhilarating 91-minute thrill ride . It wo n't be remembered for its dialogue or characters , just for its game-changing sound and visual effects . Its style becomes its substance . Think Apollo 13 on steroids , and you get the idea . 	Alfonso Cuarn 's Gravity is an eerie , tense sci-fi thriller that 's masterfully directed and visually stunning .
dreamcatcher Kasdan can create scenes of banter and menace , of everyday Maine community and gut-gushing F/X , but he ca n't wrestle this production into a coherent movie experience . As stupid as stupid can be . File Dreamcatcher with Apt Pupil and Thinner in the mediocre Stephen King adaptation drawer . What director-writer-producer Lawrence Kasden delivers is as old as pod people . Dreamcatcher is Hollywood idiocy on a staggering scale . Grimly directed by Kasdan , with a stylish gleam to the cinematography , the film is glossy high-camp nonsense . No matter how often parts of Dreamcatcher make you wince or turn your stomach or both , you are not about to leave without finding out what happens next . Gets the tone of the book precisely right , from the brooding opening , to the creature-feature midsection , to the save-the-world ending . If hopeless literalist Kasdan could have decided on a tone ... this could have been a gynophobe 's Independence Day . The movie makes a lot more sense if you 've read the book and already know how the puzzle pieces fit . They do a commendable job capturing the essence of the book , but lose some of the magic . 	An incoherent and overly long creature feature .
1152954-new world The New World is stately almost to the point of being static and thus has trouble finding a central story around which to arrange itself ; it 's not quite the thin dead line , but it 's close . Malick 's painterly images and meditative voiceovers are not for me the overwhelming force of nature they are for some , but I 'm willing to be swept along by them , if what they have to say is potent enough . If you abandon your popcorn-movie diet where everything barrels along at such a fast clip , you 'll discover a lovely and painstakingly detailed treasure , if one that is occasionally too inert for its own good . `` The New World '' is a movie that promises to leave its viewers with a bigger headache than you 'd get contemplating the current state of global affairs . The New World blows centuries of dust and schoolkid romanticism from the oft-mythologized tale of Pocahontas and the English settlers , relaying old news with an abundantly poetic and visually startling point of view . Discovery is a sensory experience by nature , and to lightly run one 's fingers through someone 's hair in The New World is to know them in some fundamental way . Word has it that director Malick pulled the film from distribution right after Christmas in order to cut it down by 17 minutes . If only he had cut out the other 133 as well . The ponderous narrative lacks so much focus that it will likely leave most viewers squirming in their seats . Malick joins worlds old and new by combining harsh realities of human nature with mystical , hungry passion . Malick 's magic remains undiminished . 	Despite arresting visuals and strong lead performances , The New World suffers from an unfocused narrative that will challenge viewers ' attention spans over its 2 1/2 hours .
selma With protestors organizing what feels like could evolve into another Civil Rights Movement , Selma is an important document of those who went before . There 's a powerfully nuanced and award-worthy performance by David Oyelowo as Martin Luther King . Vivid , nuanced and , yes , timely . Oyelowo 's performance reflects the film as a whole : graceful understated , not showy , yet deeply moving . The power of Ava DuVernay 's astonishing film comes from its understanding of the limits of King 's work as much as its celebration of his achievements . Oyelowo is sensational in Selma . He makes you believe , body and soul , heart and mind , in his performance as Martin Luther King . Oyewolo brilliantly conveys [ King 's ] incandescent gifts ... his shrewd tactical intelligence , blazing moral conviction and spellbinding rhetorical power . Gorgeously shot , beautifully written and brought to vivid life by an assortment of wonderful performances , Selma is stunningly powerful , emotive and indispensable filmmaking . ... founded on a communal sense of historical accomplishment . Even some of the film 's strongest proponents are positioning the film as a good-for-you , syllabus-ready obligation . That 's an affront to the intelligence , cinematic flexibility and emotional satisfaction of this rousing film . 	Fueled by a gripping performance from David Oyelowo , Selma draws inspiration and dramatic power from the life and death of Martin Luther King , Jr. -- but does n't ignore how far we remain from the ideals his work embodied .
oceans twelve It 's the new recruits - Catherine Zeta-Jones , Vincent Cassel , Robbie Coltrane and comedian Eddie Izzard - who really steal this show . Ocean 's Twelve is n't much better than its predecessor , but at least there 's a more focused attempt to create something tangible . Plays like The Italian Job in very slow motion ... a high gloss bore . Meets its snappy predecessor head on and wilts in comparison . It defies a minimum critical standard : providing a framework for the jokes that at least makes sense . Badly thought-out sequel with an appalling script and several half-hearted performances - you 'll have more fun watching the original again . very much a Soderbergh film , with his trademark jump-cuts and color schemes and various other amusing narrative devices . ... an insult . It 's like making moviegoers pay for someone else 's overseas frat party How many movies recapture the blithe spirit of Frank Sinatra and his Rat Pack , plus a sense of old-school star glamour ? All things considered , the fact that Ocean 's 12 is merely confusing , instead of entirely indecipherable , is somehow rather impressive . 	While some have found the latest star-studded heist flick to be a fun , glossy star vehicle , others declare it 's lazy , self-satisfied and illogical .
1073037-hunchback of notre dame Disney has rediscovered the dark magic of the psyche . The latest and most uncertain of Disney 's animated efforts , with its manic mood swings and cloying , none-too-cuddly hero . [ A ] must see summer movie . This is the least-enjoyable animated feature to come from the studio since its 1989 rebirth . It 's an emotionally rounded fairy tale that balances darkness and sentimentality , pathos and triumph , with uncanny grace . Pretty to look at ; dramatically inert . Unlike its lighter , child-friendly direct-to-video sequel , `` The Hunchback of Notre Dame '' is a mostly adult movie with plenty of dark and somber moments . The result is a grand cartoon cathedral , teeming with gargoyles and treachery , hopeless love and tortured lust . By sticking faithfully to the broader themes of Hugo 's story -- those of desolation and desire , of trust and betrayals thereof -- the creators have fashioned the most poignant and deeply moral story to roll off the Disney storyboards in decades . Much more than just a moving , emotionally resonant cartoon -- it is a moving , emotionally resonant motion picture , period . 	Disney 's take on the Victor Hugo classic is dramatically uneven , but its strong visuals , dark themes , and message of tolerance make for a more-sophisticated-than-average children 's film .
the real dirt on farmer john 2007 It plays like a film version of a long feature article that you begin reading in The New Yorker because it sounds so fascinating , only to abandon it halfway through when you realize that it does n't really have that much to say after all . What a blessing this film is , for everyone who 's chosen the road less taken , and even perhaps for anyone who 's stood in their way . A triumph of baby boomer ideals , that work and art can and ought to coexist . Even at 82 minutes , the film kind of stagnates and repeats itself . a personal journey that also stands as homage to a severely threatened American lifestyle and offers hope The Real Dirt on Farmer John turns into a portrait of how American family farming could blossom for a new century . By the time the end credits come along , you 're about ready to pat your new friend on the back , careful to avoid ruffling that feathered boa . A beautiful documentary . Completely fascinating , with a topic that hits home even if home for you is n't a farm . Bio of a guy , not a celebrity , politician , nor rich person . Could n't help loving this film , it gets under your skin like real dirt under your nails after some farm work . The Real Dirt on Farmer John examines 50-odd years in the life of its eponymous subject -- a most compelling character -- and in doing so literally provides the viewer with food for thought . 	Ostensibly a bio about an eccentric farmer , The Real Dirt on Farmer John also doubles as a stirring exploration of man 's common struggle with loss and prejudice .
since otar left The kind of small film ... that expands our understanding of the emotional economy of family life , with its ebb and flow of love and hostility , secrecy and egregious candor . Everything about this subtly directed drama enhances its pathos and humor . Through its powerful emotions coupled with exquisite restraint , this 'small ' film makes a big impact . A showcase for three very talented actresses . This emotionally rich situation is played for all its worth by the entire cast , but the standout is Gorintin . Bertuccelli tackles Since Otar Left ... with the kind of ambitious imagination that makes one marvel at a natural filmmaker 's unexpected and original choices . The mulish and loving maternal sway of Eta is felt in every one of the film 's lovingly articulated frames , thanks to the magnificently expressive performance of the 90-year-old Gorintin . Since Otar Left sustains a perfect balance of pathos , humor and a clear-headed realism . Although the premise is rather obvious , and at times a little too full of its own whimsy , the portrayal of the women is very incisive . In her first film , Julie Bertuccelli shows a pinpointed eye and a sweet gift for intimacy . 	A drama that 's both funny and moving .
manic 2003 It 's an undemonstrative , vividly authentic film . Cheadle is excellent and gives this the true credibility it deserves . Never clearly defines the machine that its malcontent characters ... rage against , or overcomes its deeply embedded psycho-ward-movie clichs . A movie of heart and substance . While it neither succeeds nor satisfies as drama , it 's a great calling card for the actors involved , principally Joseph Gordon-Levitt . Manic 's landscape is filled with emotional thunderstorms ; do n't expect a sunny sky , but you might find a ray of hope . The film 's blurry camerawork , jumpy editing , and oversaturated hues are annoying and distracting . Searching for a documentary feel , the camera here is so shaky that you cling to the arms of your chair lest you pitch into the next row . Shooting on digital video gives the film a spareness and immediacy that works well with its subject . The portrayals are all so natural and deeply felt that there are moments when it feels like we are watching something that is happening right now . It 's not that the film has much to say about teen mental illness , but that it creates a world of people about whom we suddenly care . 	A grim drama about emotionally damaged teens , Manic 's solid cast helps to elevate the material above cliche .
pour elle The idea of an ordinary guy busting his wife out of prison sounds fairly silly , but you 'll still be at the edge of your seat for most of Pour Elle . A taut , sexy , French thriller as long as youre happy to accept the ludicrous premise . Methodically detailing every stage of his daring plan , director Fred Cavay serves up a taut tale that tantalisingly leaves the question of his incarcerated heroine 's innocence dangling . Heavy-handed teases do very little for the overcooked melodrama . This romance with a twist calls to mind the classy thrillers of the 70s . This French thriller hurtles along with hardly a pause . Cavay 's film may not be the cleverest or most credible but it packs an effective punch . Prepare to gnaw you knuckles to the bone with this nerve-shredding French thriller that poses the question : How far would you go for a loved one ? The last half-hour is fraught with near-unbearable tension , as the writer-director Fred Cavaye runs the escape plot alongside the concerted efforts of les flics to foil it . Anything For Her is a superbly directed , thoroughly gripping suspense thriller that packs a powerful emotional punch . 	This taut and snappy French prison break thriller may be suspiciously implausible , but is held together by two fine central performances .
flyboys 'Flyboys ' is a nice-looking picture with some exciting moments , but it 's far too long and drastically underwritten to rank with the better war movies , or even 'Top Gun ' , for that matter . As the boys become men , movie-made and heroic , they duly exalt their beloved Cassidy , just as he would n't want them to do . A tie-in Flyboys video game is now available , designed to coincide with the film 's release . I guarantee that script will be better than this one . Those amazing young heroes from the second decade of the last century -- our first true fighter pilots -- deserve so much more than what 's served up in this very disappointing attempt . Among these combatants , you wo n't find much All Quiet on the Western Front-style despair , and the paths of glory are unsullied by doubt or disillusionment . With the romantic history behind it the script should practically have written itself . Unfortunately , the writers of the film allowed it to do just that . Sure , it 's schmaltzy . But this does n't pretend to be something it 's not . It 's a 124-minute old-fashioned , John Wayne-type , feel good war movie . And what 's wrong with that ? I loved it . While nothing ground-breaking , Flyboys is two-plus hours of passable entertainment . No cliche goes unturned in the wooden script . The movie was beautifully filmed but poorly written . What can I say -- -- once again , the script is what makes or breaks a film . 	A poorly scripted history-rewriting exercise with mediocre acting and unconvincing CGI battle scenes .
quiz show One of the greatest American films . Compelling scandal and heartbreaking victims . ... Redford manages to build quite a snowball of drama in all of this , full of heroes and antiheroes ... Every characterization is full and rounded ; every scene is a perfect development of theme . The dialogue is filled with crisp , subtle and quotable lines . It 's a blessedly old-fashioned , well-made and well-acted narrative ... Redford turns a dry subject into high art , matching the achievements of his other directing efforts in Ordinary People and A River Runs Through It . Robert Redford does a superb directing job . This is one of those vibrant , mixed-up American movies that fails to reach its loftier goals but is saved by its showbiz sparkle . Prime example of a well-done movie about ethics . What Redford is saying is n't new , but it has rarely been said in a mainstream movie with this kind of passion . A marvelous performance by Ralph Fiennes . 	Robert Redford refracts the sociopolitical and moral issues posed by the subject material through a purely entertaining , well-acted lens .
monsters-2010 A somewhat confused spawn of Cloverfield and District 9 , with less of an effects budget and less of a coherent self-concept than either of its parents . Only distinguishable from a Hollywood alien invasion movie , like Skyline , in one way . It 's actually REALLY good . 'Monsters ' is no 'Jaws , ' but the comparison is apt on one level : Edwards , like Spielberg , manages to sustain tension even in the absence of early or frequent payoffs . Monsters looks and feels like a major studio film , and Edwards is clearly a talent to watch . Is n't quite like any other sci-fi action film that 's come before ... has more in common with walking-and-talking relationship dramas like Before Sunrise A marvel of low-budget , economic storytelling that boasts impressive visual effects . As a film it 's a couple of notches shy of a masterpiece , but as an achievement it 's completely without precedent . Monsters is far from perfect , but as a calling card for a rising young talent , it 's impressive . had the potential to be smarter , boundary-pushing science fiction along the lines of District 9 , but with its underdone characterization and critical failures of imagination , it barely manages to meet the low standards of Cloverfield . A dialed down approach to the otherwise apoplectic action film that easily wins over those tired out by the continuing Michael Bay-ing of the genre . 	It does n't quite live up to its intriguing premise , but Monsters is a surprising blend of alien-invasion tropes , political themes , and relationship drama .
living out loud 'Living Out Loud ' presents the delightful surprise of Danny DeVito as a romantic lead . And he also sings ! Lovely and understated . This feminist comedy shot through with fantasies about the travails of newly single womanhood strikes some rich chords , but does n't quite put together a complete tune . LaGravenese the director seems less sure of himself than LaGravenese the writer , resorting to occasional gimmicky touches that dilute the moods and meanings for which he 's striving . A wonderfully crafted movie that has the resourcefulness to encourage Holly Hunter to dance , Danny DeVito to sing , and Queen Latifah to act . A wonderful film from beginning to end , one that is honest , genuinely funny , and poignant . A tepid comedy/drama involving a wealthy nurse , Judith ( Holly Hunter ) , who is miserable . ... made up of magical moments of revelation that are the film 's strength as well as its ultimate weakness . the kind of movie that has n't been produced very often since Jill Clayburgh retired from the screen ... Hunter , it should be said , fills Clayburgh 's high heels quite nicely , convincingly veering from neurotic to erotic ... The smooth , soothing soundtrack could not be a better fit for the laid-back , low-key , unforced appeal of the film . 	Unoriginal , with one-dimensional characters .
pan 2015 Between 'Hook , ' the faithful 2003 adaptation and the 1953 classic , there 's not a lot of fertile ground for new Pan stories and this prequel fails to validate its existence . Pan was two hours of eye candy in place of hollow storytelling . What could have been a unique spin on Peter Pan was replaced by a film overwhelmed by its own spectacle . Was anyone clamoring for the story of how Hook and Peter came to be ? Maybe , but they wo n't find it in `` Pan , '' not really . It reminds me most of Sylvain Chomet 's The Triplets of Belleville . It 's great . It 's too hurried , and its action sequences badly deteriorate as the movie goes on , rendering it a lackluster start to a potential franchise . The end suggests there are plans for more chapters to the story . If so , someone needs to reassess the formula . This was n't a movie that needed making . Sometimes , classic stories do n't benefit from re-imaginings or embellishments . Sometimes , it 's not worth knowing what happened before the fun starts . Sometimes , such mysteries are best left alone . Pan has good intentions , it even has superb acting by Hugh Jackman , but the movie itself never really takes off . [ Full review in Spanish ] This new Peter Pan tries to be a mix of everything we saw this summer , but in the end the movie feels pretentious and boring . [ Full review in Spanish ] In fashioning a creation myth for Peter Pan , director Joe Wright and writer Jason Fuchs have produced such a thin story that they reduce , rather than amplify , J.M . Barrie 's famous characters . 	Pan finds a few bursts of magic in its prequel treatment of classic characters , though not enough to offset the rushed plot and shrill , CGI-fueled action .
psycho After half a century of terror , Psycho is still ensuring that no one feels safe in the shower . Alfred Hitchcock 's powerful , complex psychological thriller , Psycho ( 1960 ) is the `` mother '' of all modern horror suspense films - it single-handedly ushered in an era Always worth another look , especially on the big screen . Psycho is not a long film but it feels long . Perhaps because the director dawdles over technical effects ; perhaps because it is difficult , if not impossible , to care about any of the characters . one of the greatest Gripping and irrevocably gruesome fare played to perfection by a top notch cast . ... more than the great granddaddy of all slasher films ; it is a great thriller , a great black comedy , and a lesson in filmmaking . Hitchcock is the most-daring avant-garde film-maker in America today . Even now , it 's distinctly unnerving . Horror masterpiece definitely is n't for young kids . 	Infamous for its shower scene , but immortal for its contribution to the horror genre . Because Psycho was filmed with tact , grace , and art , Hitchcock did n't just create modern horror , he validated it .
10009420-quid pro quo Very deftly made , with some lovely cinematography and two quirky , engaging lead performances , it 's a satisfying debut . This odd little fugue of a movie would be implausible , even laughable , if it were n't also marvelously played , visually composed and plotted with the utmost cunning . An exceedingly odd meeting of the minds ( and bodies ) occurs in Quid Pro Quo , a strikingly original and provocative first feature from scribe-helmer Carlos Brooks . The movie exerts a certain appeal without ever being convincing . Farmiga is captivating , Stahl less so -- although a bigger problem is writer/director Carlos Brooks 's script , which sets up one story , then shifts gears into something more personal and psychologically specific . It certainly wo n't be everyone 's cup of breakfast bitters , but you ca n't dismiss it nonchalantly . If you were a fan of David Cronenberg 's Crash , you might just be the target audience for Quid Pro Quo , a perverse psychological drama about able-bodied people who yearn to become disabled . Brooks tiptoes into territory Luis Bunuel would have frolicked in , but he does so without the master surrealist 's desire to outrage and confound his viewers . Strikingly original and spectacularly twisted , Quid Pro Quo is a gem . Two outstanding performances from Nick Stahl and Vera Farmiga provide riveting viewing Quid Pro Quo is a respectable feature-film debut for Mr. Brooks , and it remains reasonably thought-provoking without ever becoming emotionally absorbing . 	Despite a stunning performance by Vera Farmiga , Quid Pro Quo never develops its effective parts into a convincing whole .
star trek vi the undiscovered country entertains and has a number of interesting comments on contemporary human affairs Nice to see you in action for one last time , Captain Kirk . The original crew at its finest , and the Trek lore at its most thrilling . For a movie that begins with such promise , The Undiscovered Country ends with a whimper . Director/coscripter Nicholas Meyer moves this vehicle efficiently . He employs some tremendous visuals . Shows just how difficult it is to practice peace A fun , exciting -- and dignified -- sign-off for Captain Kirk and crew . A rousing sendoff for Kirk , Spock , and Bones , and a fitting transition from the original series ' Cold-War milieu to the Next-Generation age of engagement . Like its even-numbered predecessors , Star Trek VI : The Undiscovered Country is fast-paced and entertaining . one of the best of the series 	The Undiscovered Country is a strong cinematic send-off for the original Trek crew , featuring some remarkable visuals and an intriguing , character-driven mystery plot .
1408 A savvy slab of undecorated cheese , made compelling by its unflinching willingness to dive into the material headfirst . Cusack is supposed to be a haunted-house pro , but after a window shuts on his fingers and the sink sprays hot water , he turns hysterical . Should n't he call maintenance first ? Enjoyable chiller with some terrific suspense scenes and a superb performance from John Cusack . Cusack is uniquely suited to the role ; a movie that really wanted to spook us would posit him as a happy , church-going family man . But until such time , we have Swedish director Mikael Hafstrom 's fun take on Stephen King 's short story of the same name . 1408 amounts to little more than a radical shock-therapy session for a man still finding his way after the loss of his daughter . Best to leave him alone with his issues . Regardless of how long you last in 1408 , the logic to which you are entitled never comes . In this mix of recycled scares and half-hearted twists , the only real fright is the sight of an interesting actor wasting his talents in yet another mediocre movie . A genuinely disturbing and ingenious piece of horror that 's as much a brainteaser as it is a feast of visual creativity . It 's offers a refreshing spin on the horror formula , and joins The Shining , Vacancy and Barton Fink as a film that makes the usually accommodating hotel business seem disturbingly bad for your mental health . Though not especially original , this is frightening and disturbing film and the effects take a while to wear off . 	Relying on psychological tension rather than overt violence and gore , 1408 is a genuinely creepy thriller with a strong lead performance by John Cusack .
the dark knight The Dark Knight is so thrillingly-executed , primeval and exhilarating , it will forever sear itself into your consciousness . It might also be the most intelligent blockbuster movie ever made . It 's a movie about America , terrorism and the rule of law ; about heroism and human nature . The dude in the bat suit is just window-dressing . A very exhausting film ... something far more than just an entertainment . The darkest and most clever of all of the superhero movies ever made . Impeccably acted , morally complex and crafted with across-the-board technical virtuosity ... emerges fully formed as an American crime-movie classic . The Dark Knight might be the first superhero movie that exudes a palpable sense of dread and menace that tugs at our nerves in a way that both disturbs and delights us . Dark Knight is I suppose the greatest superhero movie ever made , but it 's so far beyond the genre that attempting to compare it with likes of Spider-Man , is almost laughable . Now you see it , now you do n't . Christopher Nolan wanted to make an action movie that was different from other action movies -- darker , more twisted , more despairing , more bleak -- and he has mostly succeeded in this latest Batman installment . He can thank Ledger for a lot of that . Ledger slips into the purple suit as if it were an animal skin for a primal , archetypal dance ... Nolan 's richly realized adaptation of a modern American mythology fulfills our faith in the material and its interpreters . 	Dark , complex and unforgettable , The Dark Knight succeeds not just as an entertaining comic book film , but as a richly thrilling crime saga .
agora The biggest problem is that Gil and Amenbar have n't been able to make the script hold together and there are times , especially with the love triangle , when things veer into the cheesy . A film that dares contemplate some huge themes , Agora shines light on a charming and neglected historical figure , but gets a little lost in trying to do too much aside from what ought to be its main focus . Agora could have been a powerfully subversive feminist film , but while it does have its moments it never truly lives up to its ambitious potential . A great example of bravura filmmaking by a gifted young international filmmaker . One of the best films of 2010 which transports us to a place we 've never been before and impresses us with the importance of hospitality and openness to the other . High-minded and ambitious , Agora is also resplendent and rich , full of striking images . An interesting but often frustrating effort by the director of The Sea Inside , who proves that ambition and talent are n't enough to ensure a compelling drama . A humorless feminist toga epic that fascinates with its intelligence and its abhorrence of the birth of Judeo/Christian culture . Filled with literal and metaphysical stone throwing between the religions , Agora is saddled with a muddy narrative and too many blokes who look alike . Just preaching to the choir - even a secular choir - is n't enough . 	Noble goals and a gripping performance from Rachel Weisz ca n't save Agora from its muddled script , uneven acting , and choppy editing .
bears 2014 I 'm not suggesting that every nature film narrator should sound like David Attenborough , but John C. Reilly really seems an odd choice . The Disneynature movies should n't be mistaken for traditional documentary , but if they act as a gateway drug for young children to learn more about the animal kingdom , then the films are serving a real purpose . If the sight of bear cubs prancing through wildflowers does n't make you smile , then you probably wo n't like the new Disneynature documentary Bears . You also probably are n't human . `` And luckily , the movie does gets out of its own way ( eventually ) and tells a somewhat engaging , 'true-life ' nature tale . '' Nature movie fans will enjoy seeing the incredible cinematography of these magnificent creatures in the wild . aimed to be child-friendly and soft pedals some of the harsher realities of bear life Although Bears does n't have a stated green message , it 's hard to see the majestic natural beauty presented onscreen and not feel stewardship urges . The result is an upbeat and frankly gorgeous nature documentary . A visual experience through and through , one that offers eye-popping delights at every turn . A delightful portrait of a year in the lives of a family of brown bears . 	Sweet , beautifully filmed , and admirably short on sugarcoating , Bears continues Disneynature 's winning streak .
spy game What Spy Game lacks in bonafide suspense , it more than recoups in the dynamic interaction of its two stars . Spy story fans should enjoy the ... scheming , the crosses and double-crosses , and the depiction of the icy obliquity built into -- and accepted -- as part of the system . It trades in the kinds of shadings and moral quandaries that have been meat and drink to Le Carre . Not completely successful as a thriller and lacks the cohesiveness and intelligence that Redford movies tend to have when he directs himself . But it 's well-plotted , acted with a charismatic flair and right on the zeitgeist . A decent thriller , but it 's about as memorable as an Aldrich Ames mugshot . A top notch spy thriller . This is dazzling , first-rate Hollywood popcorn fluff . It thinks it 's got more substance than it actually does , but Redford 's performance is like one big wink : he 's in on the joke , too . Briskly paced and has enough style to keep the formula and implausibilities , for the most part , out of mind . Redford is cool in this movie . He 's as cool as a Baskin Robbins delivery truck caught in New England 's Blizzard of '78 . Barely recommended . 	The outcome of the kinetic Spy Game is never in doubt , but it is fun watching Robert Redford and Brad Pitt work .
10010150-unborn Unoriginal , unbelievable , utterly unwatchable . Somewhere Sigmund Freud is trying to figure out how he can come back from the dead just so he can analyze The Unborn ! ... Crazy fun . At least I got to see Gary Oldman , as Rabbi Sendak , blow the sacred animal horn . The entire premise of The Unborn seems based on `` Boo ! Gotcha '' moments , which are initially quite effective but soon wear out their welcome . Even once the `` scary '' monsters start ramping up their appearances the film is still dead and Goyer 's direction feels more like a trippy music video for some Eastern European techno band than anything out of a horror film . Using the Holocaust as the basis for a horror movie is pretty distasteful , but what offended me the most about The Unborn is how sloppy it is . Hampered by the 15 rating , director David S Goyer is reduced to yawn-worthy jump-scares and recycled Exorcist gags to do his dirty work . After a few initial decent scares , the corny dialogue , poor casting and cringe-worthy acting drag this movie into it 's own hell . Utter rubbish . Goyer 's psychic dream sequences are pretty good - what a pity he decided to ruin them with a movie . Generic , underdeveloped and more silly than scary . 	David Goyer 's Unborn is a tame genre effort with cheap thrills and scares that border on silliness .
ohorten The thing about a deadpan comedy is , it must involve us in the lives of its characters , so we can understand why they are funny while at the same time so distant . O'Horten , a bittersweet whimsy by the Norwegian director Bent Hamer , finds that effortless . Hamer orchestrates all this with patient , near-minimalist skill , combining pawky comedy and plenty of heart . The result is a quirky story that remains in the mind . A quiet , oddly serene movie with a curious soul . Well-intentioned piece of Norwegian whimsy may be too low-key for its own good . Episodic ... ( but ) reflective of life and the fluidity with which it passes . Depending on your patience for oddball mood pieces , you will either sleep through O ' Horten or be oddly captivated . Either way , it 'll be like dreaming . The decidedly Nordic -- though not at all glacial -- O'Horten is a mixture of sweetness and deadpan that proves the Kaurismki/Andersson school of filmmaking still has new delights in store . Oh , O'Horten , how wincingly affected you are . Written , directed and produced by Hamer , O'Horten certainly suffers from the over-riding influence of one man 's vision . And though it 's a skilful , gentle piece of filmmaking , it 's a shame that the storyline is as old and tired as Horten himself . A pleasant , if undemanding film with some nice visual . 	Bent Hamer 's latest is a droll , deadpan comedy filled with strange touches and melancholy charm .
tarzan Mantiene un ritmo y una agilidad visual impresionantes Travels light , moves quickly and leaves very little in its wake . Manages to get the setting , the characters , and best of all the spirit of Tarzan almost right . There is not one frame of this film that I would change . An exciting , accomplished work that ranks with the wonderful Johnny Weissmuller movies . Animated to perfection , the film is especially captivating as Tarzan zips through the jungle like he 's surfing the tree cover . Simply a smashingly well-done example of animated storytelling . Seems designed more for its marketing ability than for actual filmmaking potential . a fast-paced visual marvel with heart and a bit of humor How does Disney do it ? 	Disney 's Tarzan takes the well-known story to a new level with spirited animation , a brisk pace , and some thrilling action set-pieces..
everyones hero The opportunity to talk to the kids who see this little film about the Reeves ' story -- a real-life triumph of inspiration over tragedy -- is perhaps the best tribute to the couple this film provides . ... a tame CGI cartoon for the simple-minded : the very young , the very old and Yankee fans . It 's a shame that Christopher Reeve 's final directorial effort could not have been a more fitting , and lasting , tribute . ... has so much inspirational blather it makes you want to shove a bat down your throat , yet there are enough visual notes to keep you from self-inflicted injury . If you 've always wanted to hear inanimate objects argue with each other in the personas of Cranky Jewish Guy and Sassy Black Woman , this is a dream come true . Sweet and good-natured , but ultimately it 's as unremarkable as its animation . ... a modestly engaging mix of broad comedy and nostalgic fable , spiked with a few unwelcome sprinklings of gross-out gags . The movie means well and , like tee ball , it 's probably best suited for the littlest kids only . Everyone 's Hero is just the same old over-produced CGI-animated sap they keep shoveling at the kids -- except there 's a talking baseball and bat in this one . Fun ! I suspect that most kids will get more excitement and thrills out of even the most meaningless end-of-season regulation ball game than they will with this film . 	Everyone 's Hero is such a predictable and bland tale that it 'll appeal mostly to little kids ; others seeking something in Pixar 's league are looking in the wrong ballpark .
10004504-ultraviolet Lordy mama , the thing 's just unspeakable . Some spectacular action , though obviously digital : free of risk , free of drama . Uwe Boll would be proud of this movie . It 's pretentious and oh-so-serious . The tone of the movie is one of high art , but it stinks like a landfill . This film might actually include some of the worst deliveries that I have seen in any movie in a long time . ... inacreditvel que o diretor do eficiente Equilibrium seja o responsvel por uma porcaria mal roteirizada , pavorosamente dirigida , repleta de efeitos visuais capengas e pssimas atuaes como esta produo . The most receptive audience will mainly be enlightened to know that you can make a movie as thoroughly unprofessional as this one and still get it released in 3,000 theaters . 'Aeon Flux ' Jr - nuff said The bad guys stride through spotless corriders in buildings where weirdly calm disembodied female voices say things like `` Switching to emergency backup lighting system . '' If only I could have found the button for the emergency back-up better movie system . Ultraviolet is nice to gaze at but otherwise simplistic , senseless , and eminently skippable . Ultra-dumb . 	An incomprehensible and forgettable sci-fi thriller , Ultraviolet is inept in every regard .
1201402-17 again Funny and lively , with a healthy dollop of sentimentality , it reassures us that all is not lost , except maybe our six-pack abs , as we descend into schlubby , dissatisfied middle age . When 17 Again is n't pilfering from its betters , it 's engaging in the most Pavlovian button-pushing . It 's as if 17 Again were conceived as a batch of three-minutes sketches . Some of them are fine , many are awful , and they do n't hang together at all because the movie is so plastic and phony and willing to sell out its characters for the sake of a laugh . A stinker of a comedy ... Writer Jason Filardi would n't know a joke if it jumped up and bit him in the behind ... guaranteed 100 % laugh-free . The result is lumpy and irritating , but 17 Again regroups whenever Efron is back on screen . As much fun as 17 Again has with its young-again reverie , the conclusions Mike reaches are not fantastic , but , more accurately , adult . Parental Content Review Nothing new here . It could be better , it could be worse . It 's easy to dismiss 17 Again as well-worn teenybopper fluff , but there 's a shocking level of maturity here 	Though it uses a well-worn formula , 17 Again has just enough Zac Efron charm to result in a harmless , pleasurable teen comedy .
beyond the hills 2012 Beyond the Hills may not be for everyone , but there 's no denying that it 's as intoxicating in its suggestions as it is alluring in its depiction of two people segregated by their differing beliefs Endlessly compelling and thought-provoking throughout its entire running time , even when it plunges the darkest , bleakest depths of human nature . Mungiu has crafted an alarming and engaging real-life horror story , based on a 2005 case of exorcism . The film 's final shot goes straight to the story 's heart and the spectator 's . Amazing grace . Now at last we know what those words mean . Mungiu is not preaching - he is telling us what can happen when people are trapped within their own emotions and circumstances . Remarkable . Stark , deadpan , and darkly dry . You 'd swear Mungiu has inherited the spirit of Ingmar Bergman . All that 's missing is the stark black-and-white photography . Mungiu 's human comedy leaves off where it begins ( spoiler alert ) : out in the middle of nowhere , no direction home . Mungui 's rigorous approach to filmmaking is n't a ton of fun to watch , but his ideas stick with you . Strikingly shot and punishingly long ... 	Although some viewers may mistake its deliberate pace for passionless filmmaking , Beyond the Hills offers an intelligent , powerfully acted examination of the tension between secular life and religious faith .
10009526-public enemies Public Enemies traffics in the accumulation of detail at the expense of a big picture . Mann and his writers recount Dillinger 's story clearly and with more historical accuracy than some of the earlier film versions , but you 're left wondering , `` So what ? '' Even if specific elements disappoint , the movie as a whole lingers in your head long after the credits roll . The film is not great , but it is very good in most respects , and a few isolated moments achieve greatness . In the hands of Michael Mann the film looks great , feels deliberate , and effectively explores our culture 's fascination with outlaws . With its well-staged stickups and shootouts it seems to be all surface a glossy updating of 1930s Hollywood gangster melodrama without any substantial commentary or insight . Director Michael Mann has taken the story of John Dillinger , and has made from it a drama full of dread and atmosphere , a 140-minute film that in no way seems long , that 's a succession of compelling scenes , with no dead wood . The reflection of pink neon off the crimson silk of a lawman 's tie as he stands in wait under the Biograph marquee ; a patch of sodium-vapor orange city sky above a bridge as magnetic and floating as a square in a Rothko canvas ... Has the innovative looks and cool appeal to take you under its charged cinematic spell and win you over . The choice of digital tends to only exacerbate the films many flaws . It even reveals the imperfections of Johnny Depp 's face . Who wants to see that ? 	Michael Mann 's latest is a competent and technically impressive gangster flick with charismatic lead performances , but some may find the film lacks truly compelling drama .
1208173-splice Splice undone by mad science . Natali 's experiment works . There are certain things you would expect in a story like this , and most of those happen . But then there are other developments that I 'm pleased to say my imagination is not demented enough to have conceived . Splice is one of those rare creature features where the most menacing beings are the people . [ It 's ] witty , aware of its own craziness , and disarmingly insightful about the psychology of its characters . If you 've seen Species , you know where this don't-mess-with-Mother-Nature horror show is going , though director-cowriter Vincenzo Natali has a few interesting twists up his sleeve . It 's a shame -- there 's a lot of enjoyment to be extracted from Splice , but it remains a Frankenstein 's monster of piecemeal storytelling . A thoroughly repulsive science fiction-horror flick that slicks up its B-movie tawdriness with high-gloss production values and two otherwise classy stars . Splice '' is a hit-or-miss feature that leans slightly on the hit side . It tries to sound important , while titillating its audience . It 's nice to see a genre film try to be smarter than it needs to be , but all we really get is a genre film that 's duller than it should have been . 	It does n't take its terrific premise quite as far as it should , but Splice is a smart , well-acted treat for horror fans .
duma I ca n't say enough about that magisterial cheetah . [ Not The Black Stallion ] , but at least as worthy as any other feature released in the last month . Simultaneously innocent and sophisticated , this honestly emotional fable shows why every Ballard film -- and his last was released almost a decade ago -- is a special event . It 's as good as this sort of thing gets , and deserves to be seen in a proper auditorium rather than on DVD . Like the eponymous cat , it 'll leave you feeling warm and fuzzy . Ballard gets laughs where he 's supposed to , and thrills in all the right places . Like its title character , Duma has been left to fend for itself by Warner Bros. , which is barely releasing it . A successful showing this weekend will prove that there really is an audience for this brand of thoughtful , literate family film . A visually stunning and quietly moving film of rare beauty . An old-fashion adventure yarn [ and ] an absolutely delightful throwback ! Too suspenseful for the youngest children , but for anyone older than 8 or 9 , it evokes nothing less than awe at the harsh beauty of the natural world . 	This is an old-fashioned , richly textured family film that will appeal to children and adults alike .
akai hashi no shita no nurui mizu 2002 A charming , quirky and leisurely paced Scottish comedy -- except with an outrageous central gimmick that could have been a reject from Monty Python 's Meaning of Life . Imamura 's embrace of the cental characters ' peculiar habits , predilections and appetites is his delicious and salacious way of celebrating their sexuality and individuality . Yakusho and Shimizu ... create engaging characterizations in Imamura 's lively and enjoyable cultural mix . From blushing to gushing -- -Imamura squirts the screen in 'Warm Water Under a Red Bridge ' All the allegorical oddity gets old , as does some running gag about a marathon runner . Charmingly bizarre slice of magic realism . A weird and wonderful comedy . Imamura 's delight in the infinite oddity of men and women is goofy ; it 's also , at heart , reverent . Combines a comically dismal social realism with a farcically bawdy fantasy of redemption and regeneration . A tasty slice of droll whimsy . 	A whimsically engaging sex comedy .
about a boy The summer movie season has barely begun , and already we have its first big surprise . Hugh Grant can act ! Who knew ? That rare gem that tugs at the heartstrings with no manipulative sentimentality . The film 's major setback is that it 's not as interesting as the characters are . In this winning , tic-free performance , Grant lends the shoals layer upon layer of desire , terror , ambivalence and self-awareness . Like Billy Wilder with a British bent , `` About a Boy '' lithely dances around uneasy comedy - attempted suicide , fragile kids of divorce , childhood bereft of memorable experiences . But it never trivializes them , emphasizing life 's quality over its quantity . Prepare to meet the male version of Bridget Jones , as Hugh Grant turns in one of the best performances of his career in a solid -- yet considerably muddy -- romantic comedy . A truly winning comedy about romance . Summer comedies are notoriously shallow , but About a Boy lets us dive into refreshing waters . About a Boy is sophisticated and nuanced , and every character is bursting with emotional contradictions . 	A winning comedy that benefits from Hugh Grant 's boyish charms .
september issue An irresistible pop culture mashup . A mesmerizing study of the tension between commerce and creativity . In director R.J. Cutler 's snappy documentary about the making of the September 2007 issue of Vogue editor Anna Wintour exhibits an icy , unflappable veneer . Director , R. J. Cutler , gradually gets under the surface of this glossy universe , and the resulting film feels accurate and true . A fascinating , frustrating documentary . A sleek , very entertaining documentary . Far more insightful than the fawningly impressed The Devil Wears Prada or the weakly satirical Prt -- Porter . Entertaining and revelatory as it is , the docu raises questions of any work that 's authorized version , and there 's also the issue of context , as it depicts the fashion magazine two years ago and so much has changed since then . Wintour steers a tight ship . Coddington reminds her that Vogue has a history based on something more than profit . In the end , they 're a winning combination . a more perfect representation of the eternal struggle , and even more eternal dependence , of art and commerce , there could not be . 	This doc about the making of Vogue 's biggest issue and its frosty editor-in-chief is fascinating eye candy and light-on-its-feet fun .
10012063-ghost writer `` The Ghost Writer '' is n't Polanski 's worst movie ( that would be `` The Ninth Gate '' ) , but it 's sluggish and conventional and a long way from his great ones . It 's not one of Polanski 's masterpieces , but The Ghost Writer does n't dilute his reputation as a master of suspense . Respectable adult entertainment with enough paranoia and off-kilter touches to satisfy longtime [ Roman Polanski ] fans . The Ghost Writer is minor Polanski but it 's one of the rare thrillers these days that plays up to you instead of down . A stylish , precise salute to Hitchcock 's thrillers but still bearing all the hallmarks of Roman Polanski 's distinctive style . The film will probably be better remembered as a faithful screen adaptation of the Robert Harris political thriller . Sometimes it 's a Chinatown . Sometimes not so much . When it comes to celebrating Mr. Polanski 's finest works -- maybe we can ascribe this one to The Ghost . Intense , masterful political thriller OK for older teens . creates a wondrous sense of tension with things half seen , half heard , making even the most pedestrian of settings take on the most sinister of aspects . Smart and atmospheric , with a delicious undercurrent of brutality , this is a political thriller executed with the panache of Hitchcock in his prime . 	While it may lack the revelatory punch of Polanski 's finest films , Ghost Writer benefits from stylish direction , a tense screenplay , and a strong central performance from Ewan McGregor .
sunrise Murnau masterpiece ; gorgeously shot and acted . Nothing will explain it or the experience of it . It simply has to be seen -- and that is as it should be . Sunrise ( 1927 ) is German director F. W. Murnau 's American debut - his first project for Hollywood 's Fox Film Corporation . It was the first feature film F.W . Murnau 's Sunrise ( 1928 ) conquered time and gravity with a freedom that was startling to its first audiences . To see it today is to be astonished by the boldness of its visual experimentation . gives the modern viewer a way to look back at the history of cinema In its artistry , dramatic power and graphic suggestion it goes a long way toward realizing the promise of this foreign director in his former works , notably Faust . Alternatingly romantic , joyful , sexy and terrifying One of the last great silent movies . F.W . Murnau 's first American film is a tour de force of silent filmmaking . An example of True Love styled to cinema perfection . 	Boasting masterful cinematography to match its well-acted , wonderfully romantic storyline , Sunrise is perhaps the final -- and arguably definitive -- statement of the silent era .
gods and monsters The film clearly belongs to McKellen , whose presence is what makes the film as affecting at it is . This is a joy of a film , a throwback to the great human dramas of the Hollywood that made Hollywood ; where movies for Everyman ( even if dealing with not so-Every-man ) were invented . '' Not a complicated film , but warm and clever . The James Whale of this movie proves to be a dotty bore . I ca n't remember the last time I was so emotionally pounded by a film ... Ian McKellan is a god . For all of the interesting possibilities inherent in Condon 's source material , the single most important thing one learns about James Whale , according to the film , was that he was a dirty old man . a truly good film with a great cast ... a filmic epiphany . McKellen 's performance borders on brilliance . An example of a reasonably challenging film that does n't really accomplish what it sets out to do , but is nevertheless thoughtfully-conceived and contains a couple of highly enjoyable performances that keep it afloat . 	Gods and Monsters is a spellbinding , confusing piece of semi-fiction , featuring fine performances ; McKellen leads the way , but Redgrave and Fraser do n't lag far behind .
remember the titans Once kicked , the ball deflates midway through the goal posts , and then lies there sagging for another 45 minutes . The film is quite lightweight for the subject matter , but Washington and company make it watchable . We 've seen this kind of sports movie a thousand times , but you know what , I like that movie . A well-packaged , well-acted , well-intentioned feel good movie that brings nothing new to the table yet still manages to pull you into its wonderful world of harmony . A veritable winner . Beneath its rah-rah rhetoric and pigskin proselytizing , it 's no more provocative or thoughtful than a Hallmark greeting card . Generally this is a skilful film , subtle as can be expected from a major studio , with involving , detailed characterisations , and the best kind of tear-jerking moments -- those that earn the right to be there . A weird blend of Malcolm X , Stand by Me , and Rocky . Sturdy , gripping and well-balanced if somewhat artificial . A cheerfully uplifting triumph , that rare film that conveys emotion without sentimentality , and whose weaknesses are so overpowered by its strengths that you practically forget they exist . 	An inspirational crowd-pleaser with a healthy dose of social commentary , Remember the Titans may be predictable , but it 's also well-crafted and features terrific performances .
van wilder 2 How `` Van Wilder 2 '' somehow made it into theaters is baffling , because it 's every bit as unfunny and cheap-looking as its direct-to-DVD brethren Ill-conceived . Crikey , it 's enough to give even stupid comedy a bad name . As the movie itself is only occasionally entertaining , I invented my own competition : picking scenes from other movies that the Van Wilder 2 screenwriters ripped off because they did n't have any of their own ideas . Van Wilder 2 's sense of numbing familiarity is not enhanced by director Mort Nathan 's apparent unfamiliarity with the entire filmmaking process . As the nerd sidekick to campus wildman Ryan Reynolds in the original film , Penn projected a geeky charm , but he 's not equipped to play the lead in a well-constructed movie , let alone salvage this stunningly mediocre chain of skits . Penn , who also takes an executive producer credit here , wanders around halfheartedly attempting to make something amusing out of the limp shock-comedy antics , but it all just goes in one innuendo and out the other . Dude , where are my laughs ? At one point I tried to force myself to fall asleep , just so I would n't have to sit through any more of it . From haphazard editing to clueless cinematography to godawful acting to gaping plot holes to zero laughs to low production values , this sorry sequel has all the earmarks of your classic 'take the money and run ' ripoff . 	A low-brow comedy , minus the comedy .
the wizard of oz 1939 Decades later and it 's all still such a fresh and vibrant experience ... The most magical movie ever is still magic in 3D IMAX . A delightful fantasy for children and adults alike , one that cherishes childhood and its dreams . Nothing less than an life-affirming echo from the hall of mankind 's eternal soul . MGM 's fantastic IMAX 3D conversion for the The Wizard of Oz 's 75th anniversary underlines rather than obscures most of the film 's visual pleasures , reminding us ( if we 'd managed to forget ) just how glorious L. Frank Baum 's strange world is . I am 8 years old and I think I 've seen The Wizard of Oz about 50 times . Whether you see it as a timeless ode to the power of friendship and imagination or as a feature-length fever trip about a girl with a subconscious bloodlust for revenge , Victor Fleming 's 1939 fantasy tale is nevertheless a certified classic . This phantasmagorical fantasy really does represent old-school MGM filmmaking at its best . It 's a feature built for bigness , with its immersive qualities still potent after all these years . The IMAX 3D treatment is merely a fun exhibition detour . The Wizard of Oz ( 1939 ) is everybody 's cherished favorite , perennial fantasy film musical from MGM during its golden years . For many seasons , it was featured 	An absolute masterpiece whose groundbreaking visuals and deft storytelling are still every bit as resonant , The Wizard of Oz is a must-see film for young and old .
erin brockovich A feel-good film with all the numbing predictability movie-goers seem to demand . There is never a dull moment . With this script , Grant becomes Hollywood 's foremost writer of strong , smart women 's roles , and Lachmann works the same wonders with the atomizing light of Southern California that he did in Soderbergh 's The Limey . A rousing , hugely entertaining movie . This movie has the eerie tang of so many other wretched Roberts vehicles of the past ... but somehow , it manages to produce a moderately good film Inspiring and terrifically entertaining . The movie gets bogged down in a trite legal plot . Soderbergh demands a lot from his star here , and she delivers , perhaps more than even he expected . Atop all the talk about this being Roberts ' career performance so far ( and it is ) , it would be unjust to overlook that this is also the best screen role Finney has had in years . It is the compelling story that demands the audience 's respect with its early claim of truth . 	Taking full advantage of Julia Roberts 's considerable talent and appeal , Erin Brockovich overcomes a few character and plot issues to deliver a smart , thoughtful , and funny legal drama .
children of men It 's a sophisticated notion handled fairly deftly in what might be the first film of the 21st century to ponder the end of humanity as it is most likely to occur : slowly with lots of time to think about it . Cuarn also pulls us deep into the engrossing universe he has created . There is a stark absence of gadget porn in this futuristic adventure ; the most advanced device we see is a video game , innovation at its most trivial . A major message to be taken from Children of Men is that the miracle of child birth can not be taken for granted . At the end , though , it is felt that without hope , without faith , then what is there to live for ? Children of Men founders in its latter moments -- not a lot , but enough . Its failure is less one of plot than of something deeper , a composing idea to undergird the plot . Director Alfonso Cuarn takes his career to a whole other level here . He expertly preys on our doomsday fears , punctuating scenes with the harsh sounds and images of war we 've already heard and seen on the nightly news . This is how humanity ends ... annihilated not all at once , but piecemeal , slowly ground to bits between the codependent ideologies of terror and fascism . Children of Men feels more relevant than almost every film set in the present day and is better than almost every other film made this year . Cuaron does n't treat his future world like fictitious science fiction . He seems to be saying that our current paths will lead to an apocalypse not unlike this one . What makes Children work is that camera and the staging of all the physical insanity its lens captures . You can see it now or wait 20 years until the movie has found a niche among equally visionary movies that have the capacity to compel , alarm and shake things up . 	Children of Men works on every level : as a violent chase thriller , a fantastical cautionary tale , and a sophisticated human drama about societies struggling to live . This taut and thought-provoking tale may not have the showy special effects normally found in movies of this genre , but you wo n't care one bit after the story kicks in , about a dystopic future where women can no longer conceive and hope lies within one woman who holds the key to humanity 's survival . It will have you riveted .
max payne Another laughably bad movie based on a popular video-game title . Honestly , you find yourself rooting against Payne 's survival , even with a good actor in the hollow role . There 's nothing inside the film 's sour , slovenly spirit of vengeance . I did n't hate Max Payne , but it 's hard to summon up strong feelings of any kind about something so slick , remote and vacuum-packed you barely feel you 've seen it . I am still a big Mark Wahlberg fan but his choice of roles is beginning to try my patience Did Wahlberg read the script , or was it hidden under the pile of money that the producers dropped at his door step ? '' This action saga is driven into unintentionally self-parodic territory only a seven-year-old boy could reasonably stomach . Mark Wahlberg 's titular hero has n't cracked a smile in seven years . The surprise is that he makes the lonely cop seem half human with half a dozen words and a staggering amount of violence . The film combines ferocious self-importance with lashings of really nasty , unreflective violence . nothing we have n't seen before Max Payne is content to be an efficient vehicle for the delivery of a familiar range of sensations , some of which almost rise to the level of feelings . 	While it boasts some stylish action , Max Payne suffers severely from an illogical plot and overdirection .
haywire 2011 If you 're a fan of the action-thriller genre , Soderbergh superbly nails what thrills it takes for those films to work so well . Nifty spy actioner featuring impressive big-screen newcomer and martial-arts expert Gina Carano as a high-level , high-kickin ' intel operative for hire but not to mess with . While the plot is routine and familiar -- Carano is framed by other spies and targeted for extermination -- the overall visceral effect is fascinating . Right up to the film 's comically abrupt ending , it 's all about Mallory 's strength , speed and uncanny ability to survive . A dismissive cop , early on , refers to her as `` Wonder Woman '' ; turns out he 's not kidding . [ Soderbergh ] may be unpredictable but his command of movie making is exhilarating and lord knows he 's never dull . You do n't love movies if the sight of Gina Carano beating up every guy in sight does n't make you laugh , get happy and feel as if you 're getting your money 's worth . As with 'Contagion , ' Soderbergh 's arthouse cool does more to dampen the appeal of the genre material than to validate , elevate , critique or refresh it . Somebody show the auteur a Cynthia Rothrock movie , stat . Ultimately what the film looks like is ... that a bunch of actors really wanted to get beatdowns from an MMA fighter . While Carano steals the picture in every scene she 's in , there 's not much left for the heavyweight male cast to get their teeth into . If anything , Haywire is most closely linked to last year 's Contagion , a kindred effort in style , theme , and value-marring detachment . 	MMA star and first-time actress Gina Carano displays ample action-movie chops in Haywire , a fast-paced thriller with a top-notch cast and outstanding direction from Steven Soderbergh .
humpday Shelton 's ability to get terrific performances out of an unknown cast borders on the astonishing . You have to give Lynn Shelton a lot of credit for trying to explore a part of the male lifestyle that often deliberately goes unspoken . A warm and usually winning shoestring-budgeted effort that proves money does not equate to real talent . Lynn Shelton 's marvelous chamber comedy Humpday butts up against the same sort of taboos as Brno , and in its fumbling , semi-improvised way , it 's equally hilarious and even more subversive . Shelton 's low-fi treatment helps soften it , but too many overcooked moments still seep through . Consistently funny , as well as genuinely insightful about the way men relate to one another . Hilariously perceptive . It 's funny and sweet and curious about the nature of dude friendship , although Shelton , like her characters , equivocates a little too much about the eventual outcome . Writer-director Lynn Shelton sweetly , mischievously tracks Ben and Andrew as they jaw , shoot hoops , roughhouse , and hug it out . One thing usually that stands out in independent films is the amateurish acting , but that 's not the case here . Every performance is right on the money and feels 100 % natural . 	Observant and insightful , this indie comedy takes a different tack on the `` bromance '' but still makes a point without sermonizing .
oranges and sunshine A powerful , admirably restrained , real-life drama . The most powerful sequences in the movie are the linked vignettes involving Margaret and the various grown-up children whom she attempts to help in their search for -- what , exactly ? Closure ? Catharsis ? A chilling tale ? Not when made into a maudlin , completely predictable , mainstream narrative movie by filmmaker Jim Loach . Impressively directed and superbly written , this is a powerfully emotional drama with a terrific central performance from Emily Watson . ... a bit plodding overall , its heroine more perseverant than passionate . Fundamentally dry and somewhat hamstrung by its own artful restraint , Oranges and Sunshine nevertheless works on the basis of its riveting performances . It 's all very stiff-upper-lip , when what the subject cries out for is a rant . If larger truths have been overlooked , the subject is still wrenching enough to make Oranges and Sunshine an inspired work of dignity and purpose . There are beautiful performances here from every member of the cast , and it 's much to Loach 's credit that he handles this potentially sensational material with such restraint . You want to be moved more than you are by a film that does n't tap the emotions half as much as the facts . Loach shows promise , though . 	Grounded in a heartwrenching fact-based story , steered by Loach 's sensitive direction , and led by a powerful performance from Watson , Oranges and Sunshine sidesteps its pacing problems and occasionally clichd screenplay .
end of watch The real thing to focus on here is the chemistry between Gylenhaal and Michael Pena ; it 's authentic . The action is god but it 's the scenes with them in the car that really help you understand them and their viewpoints . Like a knife in the eye , End of Watch cuts past the cliches of standard police procedurals , serving instead as a visceral ride-along with two thrill-seeking cops . All it took was a director of David Ayer 's ingenuity to bring the oft-maligned found footage genre back into repute . It may seem like just another movie about the mean streets of South Central and the blue knights that keep the peace , but writer-director David Ayer focuses on the characters while slowly and subtly bringing the plot up from the background . There 's just something about the way that Ayer has put it all together that makes it seem both familiar yet sometimes breathtakingly fresh . ( Full Content Movie Review for Parents also available ) Tough , gritty , full of feeling and atmosphere , thanks to Ayer 's authentic touch and the excellent performances of its cast . A visceral and strangely gripping story of police brotherhood . At times Ayer rubs our noses , almost literally , in the devastating horribleness of it all . The writer of `` Training Day '' and `` Harsh Times '' brings us ... a vivid series of impressionistic sketches of a year in the lives of two Los Angeles police officers . End of Watch is a repellent movie , first for its shaky-cam conceit rendering much of the action incomprehensible , and finally for seeking to entertain viewers through the thuggish execution of a police officer . 	End of Watch has the energy , devotion to characters , and charismatic performances to overcome the familiar pitfalls of its genre and handheld format .
dear white people The issues are more interesting than the characters , though Simien provides a welcome and fairly trenchant [ film ] . Simien shoots satirical buckshot , missing as often as he hits , and the clunky framing device is pure amateur hour , yet he also displays an attention to character complexity that shows genuine promise . This sharp , stylish comedy does pack quite a punch when it hits its stride ... An edgy premise and memorable cast make for a potent first impression . Dear White People succeeds because it delivers its message with common sense and wisdom instead of a heavy hand . The message gets a little scattershot and repetitive at times , but he hits his mark more often than not . However successful [ the film ] may be at capturing hearts and minds when it comes to social and political issues , it has the early indicators of being a small-scale cult classic . Refreshing , provocative , and powerfully topical . Smart , funny , generally on target ... like early Spike Lee , only more polished It holds a comic lens up to the love-hate relationship between the races in all its contradictions . And it is a portrait of post-racial America as the symbiotic clashing of opposite polarities . 	Dear White People adds a welcome new voice to cinema 's oft-neglected discussion of race , tackling its timely themes with intelligence , honesty , and gratifyingly sharp wit .
mother and child The characters and the cast should deliver in spades , but the story falters , makes a couple of clumsy jumps and twists into contorted tangles with subplots that are mere distractions Great dramatic acting by the three lead women , and it 's fantastic to see Samuel L. Jackson back in a strong supporting role . Emotionally engaging , sharply written and powerfully acted drama that commendably resists some of the expected clichs . This film is sure to make all but the hardest-hearted shed tears . Mother and Child reminds us how important the notion of lineage - of finding a discernible path through life that does n't just begin and end with ourselves - is to our personal identity , and the decisions we make in life . As far as the stories are concerned , a couple of them are pretty good . But the nearly disastrous third section unravels the entire movie . You 'll laugh and you 'll cry at what turns out to be Rodrigo Garcia 's finest work to date . [ Garcia ] lets the picture start to go soft in the middle , and teary melodrama floods in like water from a broken dam . For the most part , Garcia offers a sober , clear-eyed picture that 's populated with prickly personalities and unenviable situations , and he and his actors are brave enough not to flinch even during the most challenging interludes . The combination of strong writing and note-perfect performances makes Mother and Child one of those unforgettable films that should be amongst the year 's best . 	Though it occasionally veers into unnecessary melodrama , Mother and Child benefits from a stellar cast and writer-director Rodrigo Garcia 's finely detailed , bravely unsentimental script .
la stanza del figlio By daring to be honest and unsparing , The Son 's Room is meaningful . Delicately distinctive ; it 's the kind of picture that stirs subterranean rumbles of empathy in us rather than flashy , gushing waves . While events have necessarily changed perspectives on the film , it maintains a gentle , respectful sensibility . Ultimately the project comes across as clinical , detached , uninvolving , possibly prompting audience members to wonder , 'What 's the point ? ' The Son 's Room is a sob story that is too pat for my taste . The feelings it expresses hold an undeniable sense of truth and are therefore not easily dismissed . The Son 's Room addresses both death and life with honesty and respect . While not as aggressively impressive as its American counterpart , `` In the Bedroom , '' Moretti 's film makes its own , quieter observations A work of powerful understatement , artfully crafted and subtly acted . Moretti does n't wrap the grieving , the angst , in melodrama . The facts are given . And the suffering is palpable . 	The Son 's Room is a moving and contemplative study of grief .
lizzie mcguire movie ... screams special episode . A banal slice of fluff . Its cute story and its adorable lead , Hilary Duff as Lizzie , will eventually win you over . Even as bubble-gum moviemaking goes , this is one thin Lizzie . By filling in what the story lacks in originality with easy attractions like pretty faces , set to fluffy music , the filmmakers lose the outsider edge the Lizzie McGuire franchise was built on . If you are older than this target group , you will find it rather boring and stupid . Those familiar with the popular and titular Disney channel series will be satisfied . As much as I like Hilary Duff and Lizzie McGuire , they both deserved better than this underwhelming big screen outing . If you happen to be the unfortunate parent stuck chaperoning a gaggle of tweens , here 's a survival guide . ... yet another one to drop the kids off at while you get a few things done ... 	Harmless piece of fluff that ought to satisfy fans of the TV show .
men in black ii ... falls prey to the syndrome that affects many sequels : the apparently irresistible desire to replicate the formula from the first film . Men in Black II is an efficient entertainment , but it 's far from inspired . Tommy Lee Jones now works in the Post Office . There we learn that while foul weather can not stop mail delivery , gray shorts and thigh-high socks can halt machismo dead in its tracks . They 're going through the motions , but the zip is gone . If you enjoyed the first one , chances are you 'll enjoy the second -- after all , they 're almost the same movie . Men in Black was a witty parody of `` X-Files '' paranoia and pop mythology . Men in BlackII is a parody of the original Men in Black , but not a witty one . Ultimately , `` MIB II '' succeeds due to its rapid-fire delivery and enough inspired levity that it ca n't be dismissed as mindless . It 's a tasty snack , but you 'll probably feel a little empty when it 's finished . There are plenty of crazy aliens , and a few jokes at the expense of the occasional celebrity . Too bad none of it was really all that funny or even memorable . This second Men In Black will likely be forgotten in a flash of light . 	Lacking the freshness of the first movie , MIB 2 recycles elements from its predecessor with mixed results .
bright leaves A meandering riff on the dangerous allure of smoking , and more interestingly a meditation on the way motion pictures can preserve our life experiences -- but only to a point . Who 'd have thunk that a freeform meditation on tobacco , family , and filmmaking would be so compelling ? [ McElwee 's ] moviemaking skills and beguiling personality more than make up for his egocentric explorations . McElwee 's autobiographical films ... are leisurely jaunts with a gentle humor that never mocks his subjects . It 's a gentle rumination on the contradictions , failures and delusions of everyday life . But mainly , it 's a quietly satisfying dose of reality . blends nostalgia , economics , and personal reactions to new information at a perfect pitch that allows for laughter and deeply felt affection Ross McElwee 's movies have the rhythms of a person who is writing -- considering this possibility , rejecting that one and ultimately making a decision . Opens tediously slow , but grows on you , reels you in , perhaps like smoking itself . `` trance-like , seemingly suspending time . '' Then , like smoking , finds difficulty quitting . Classic McElwee blending together the personal and the political in his native North Carolina , to which he something of the same ambivalent relation that Faulkner , another son of the South , had to Mississippi . We are hooked into a low-tech but compelling dynamic -- between relatively static images and McElwee 's sensitive , connective narrative . 	A rich , eccentric documentary about both filmmaking and the tobacco industry .
training day A taut -- if violent -- police thriller . Trama interesante llena de personajes tridimensionales y sustanciosos que seguramente harn pensar al espectador en los tiempos actuales que vivimos . This movie is so racist that it 's almost possible to overlook the wholesale misogyny . The movie is headed for a long , brutal and bloody payoff , one that may be too over-the-top for public consumption right about now . Denzel Washington delivers his best work as a rogue cop on the streets . ... an obsequious vehicle where Washington can strut his dastardly stuff in an otherwise penetrating but arbitrary streetwise adventure . Personally , this undercover movie reviewing narc finds Training Day a kind of tough pill to swallow . ... an intelligent and riveting action movie that does n't rely on a lot of special effects to tell a genuinely interesting story . Training Day is a tense , polished , well-made action thriller that suffers from bad timing . Unquestionably convincing , disturbingly realistic , and unflinchingly honest . In Antoine Fuqua and Dominic Sena 's race to become David Fincher , Fuqua , with his colour-bleached urban noir Training Day , pulls slightly ahead 	The ending may be less than satisfying , but Denzel Washington reminds us why he 's such a great actor in this taut and brutal police drama .
billy madison Better than it deserves to be . Like so many Saturday Night Live skits , this film comes up with some interesting ideas but then does n't have a clue what to do with them . Also like that show , this movie is just not funny . S h uma coisa pior do que os habituais trejeitos ( nada engraados ) de Adam Sandler : os roteiros que este escreve - e o segredo de seu sucesso nas bilheterias um mistrio maior do que o paradeiro de Jimmy Hoffa . Those unfamiliar with Sandler 's antics may ... begin to find him annoying sometime between the appearance of the Universal logo and the end of the opening credits . Young teens will like brash , immature humor . Sandler 's best . Edgy , satirical , bizarre and surreal . As one character tells Billy in the finale : `` Everyone in this room is dumber for having listened to you . '' Director Tamra Davis and screenwriters Sandler and Tim Herlihy scatter the bad jokes like fertilizer . Nothing sprouts . Duh-m Sandler , typical fare for him Typical Sandler 	Billy Madison is typical early immature fare from Adam Sandler , even if it finds moments of inspired lunacy .
mary reilly The story lacks purpose . 'Boring ' is just about the worst thing a movie can be and Mary Reilly is boring . It 's a slight , moribund bugaboo , a bump in the night , and then nothing . Is it a gothic horror ? Is it a psychological thriller ? Is it a love story ? Ultimately , it seems the filmmakers do n't even know the answer , and as a result Mary Reilly does n't succeed in any genre . Mary Reilly works as Gothic melodrama because it understands the genre so well . Certainly Julia Roberts ' strangest role , and she does an OK job . My distaste for the movie comes not from disliking these scenes , but from being put to sleep by the boredom of the show . Director Frears seems more interested in the atmosphere than the narrative . Mary Reilly is Roberts ' worst misfire to date , despite the fact that on paper it must have looked awfully good . Unfortunately , your response to the bizarre story of terror and lust that dare not speak their name is pretty well limited to Roberts ' response -- which is , in turn , limited by her technique . 	The movie looks good and has its moments . But , overall , the movie borders on boredom .
angela-2007 Genial performances and a pleasing plot are elevated to the stuff of cinematic majesty by Thierry Arbogast 's glorious monochrome photography , which recalls the Parisian vistas of the nouvelle vague . This movie will make you feel better about life in general , and , in particular , about Paris , which has never looked more magnificent than in Thierry Arbogast 's cinematography . A gorgeous-looking film whose crisp , black-and-white photography is unfortunately much more thrilling than its simplistic , cloying story . If you 'd like a look at Paris in all its splendour , look no further than Angel-A . Just be sure that in order to see Paris in all its splendour you do n't mind sitting through a silly little comedy with a dopey ending . Surprise , surprise - Luc Besson envisions a celestial being as a leggy , skinny super model . The strained fairy tale feels like writer/director Luc Besson 's effort to move beyond the pop giddiness of La Femme Nikita and The Fifth Element to a mature statement about issues important to him , but the effort overshadows the message . To call Angel-A unconvincing would be an Eiffel Tower-sized understatement . Besson excels at stories about rough characters who are saved through their relationship with a more civilized character ( as in The Professional and La Femme Nikita ) . Angel-A adheres to that paradigm , but it also has more soul , humor and warmth than those There 's as much credibility in this match-up as color on the screen . The film settles into a laid-back groove that is , how shall we say , endlessly boring . 	The clunky dialogue and shallow characters fail to capitalize upon Angel-A 's stunning , poetic cinematography .
1071806-independence day One of the prime guilty pleasures of our time . Independence Day is woefully short on anything that rouses the imagination . This one 's short on batteries . The most spectacular and intriguing sci-fi action film since the 'Star Wars ' trilogy . ( published 7-6-96 ) ... made up of bits and pieces of every sci-fi flick ever made . I loved it . No brain , no pain , but a heck of a lot of fun . Big , dumb , glossy blockbuster designed for mass appeal is massively appalling . Independence Day is Hollywood 's poster child for the design-by-committee blockbuster . Slightly derivative , but thoroughly crowd-pleasing . While the script is heavy on coincidence and melodrama it never fails to be fun . 	The plot is thin and so is character development , but as a thrilling , spectacle-filled summer movie , Independence Day delivers .
der tunnel 2001 Well-cast and sporadically gripping . It 's all a bit reminiscent of Wolfgang Petersen 's Das Boot -- different war , but a similar stylistic economy and claustrophobic mood . Roland Suso Richter 's darkly atmospheric film recounts the effort of a group of people to dig a tunnel under the Berlin Wall . Richter 's brisk direction keeps us riveted through the suspenseful finish of his vivid history lesson . Either as history at its most inspiring or moviemaking at its most exciting , The Tunnel is a trip . It is the kind of superbly crafted , intelligent entertainment -- a classic suspense thriller -- that nowadays is as welcome as it is rare . The Tunnel combines fact and fiction , but is never less than completely engrossing . Based on a true story from the late 1950s , this thrilling drama looks at the extraordinary lengths taken by a group of West Berliners to dig a tunnel under the city 's barbed-wire border with East Berlin . As the edge-of-the-seat narrative unfolds , every performance is layered , every shot by cinematographer Martin Langer is effectively streamlined and a plot that could easily have been predicable ripples with suspense . It 's distressing to learn how much German television looks like a Jerry Bruckheimer movie . 	The Tunnel is both a tension-filled thriller and a riveting history lesson .
restrepo Restrepo is , on its own terms , a stunning piece of work , but to get even more from it you should buy Junger 's book , WAR , which expands on the footage we see . a strange mixture of extreme intimacy and remote distance It 's raw and harrowing , and also surprisingly funny . And it makes Hollywood war movies look ridiculous Places audiences into the same groggy but frazzled rhythm as its combatants . its most emotionally raw moments are indicative of their military subjects ' exceptional comfort level with their observers ( ... ) the arid yet woody outcroppings high above the valley are an intriguing new terrain The madness of warfare is starkly presented here , as dozens of questions potentially run through the viewer 's mind . Despite disclaimers by the directors that this is not a `` political '' movie , `` Restrepo '' is one damned good reason to get the hell out of Afghanistan NOW . Has the spare , lyrical force of an elegy . The directors push no agendas , but they also pull no punches . They show the soldiers in their bravest moments , most vulnerable and frightened moments , and even their most frighteningly bloodthirsty moments . The footage Junger and Hetherington got is an incredible , boots-on-the-ground , soldier's-eye view of combat . 	Forsaking narrative structure for pure visceral power , Restrepo plunges viewers into the experiences of soldiers on the front lines of the Afghan War .
world trade center A tentative mixture of tearjerker and disaster movie , cautious due to the requirement that it bear witness to the true-life heroism , staying within the tonal range that is sanctioned for American films depicting 9/11 . Stone slyly sneaks virtuoso moments into his story , bringing a modest elegance to a script that frequently feels creakily old-fashioned . Five short years after the attack , our wildly varied emotions - shock , sorrow , anger - require no manipulation . They 're too big for that - and maybe too big for any movie to contain . World Trade Center feels like the respectful and tender beginning of a dialogue between filmmakers and audiences about a subject most would rather not revisit via their entertainment . Stone does n't shy from bawling wives , gauzy sentimental flashbacks or rousing musical cues , but there 's little doubt that he could have gone more overboard . When it sticks to the first-person account of its survivors , it is at its most riveting . World Trade Center is n't about foreign policy or hatred or even patriotism . It 's about the bravery and resilience lying dormant in all of us . There is one scene of true brilliance and shattering impact as a mother waiting for news of her son ( Viola Davis ) recalls that the last time she saw him she scolded him for missing dinner . The whole movie has a Lifetime Movie of the Week feel . In fact ... World Trade Center is one of the few cinematic efforts that wants to accurately recreate the confusion and chaos that derives from unexpected disaster . 	As a visually stunning tribute to lives lost in tragedy , World Trade Center succeeds unequivocally , and it is more politically muted than many of Stone 's other works .
afterschool Unsettles without illuminating , marred by narcotic pacing and a blank lead performance . Originality is perhaps the major missing component , but this still stacks up as a nifty debut with ideas and ambition to spare . Though thin on story , the film shows poise and vision , using bleak cinema-realite techniques with chilling effect . Campos promises to be heard from again . Those with the patience to wait out Mr. Campos 's overindulgences will definitely leave Afterschool unnerved , which is probably exactly what he had in mind . Once made ... Afterschool proceeds to regurgitate its thesis with all the grace of a lumberjack leveling a redwood . Antonio Campos 's character study of a prep school social misfit named Robert ( Ezra Miller ) is an intimate psychological journey into a coded juvenile mindset . An intelligent , often gripping , and intriguingly autobiographical drama of paranoia . A slow and suffocating experience . Not that this is a criticism , because it 's exactly the feeling director Antonio Campos has tried to create . The passing of time and the evolution of technology may give it an expiration date , but more likely , Campos ' film stands to be an essential document of what it was like to be a young person in the late '00s . Afterschool does feel like an interesting play on the idea of voluntary surveillance , but there 's no real emotional crescendo , no catharsis and no satisfying conclusion to Robert 's angst , which is only ever skirted around . 	Antonio Campos'Afterschool is an intelligent , ambitious debut that boasts strong performances and plenty of ideas .
fifth element Mr. Besson directs with ceaseless flamboyance and with an obvious enthusiasm for his film 's comic book conceits . But the tone of The Fifth Element is often terribly shrill , especially when attention shifts to grating minor characters . Boring and idiotic Bruce Willis is good in an average role , Milla Jovovich is acceptable in a terrible role , but as ever Gary Oldman is terrific in how he seems to find just the right note for the film and threatens to take it over . The Fifth Element has to be the most creative visualization since Tim Burton 's first Batman in 1989 . On top of that , it 's a whole lot of fun . Loud , long , and overwhelming ... The story is such a cut-rate kid 's sci-fi fairy tale that at one point Evil actually calls Gary Oldman on the phone ( and it is n't played for laughs ) . I knew where it was going at all times , but the ride was excellent . There 's no doubt about it , when it comes to saving the world , Bruce Willis is your man . He does it with smarts and style , humor and courage . A motion picture with the body of a mainstream blockbuster but the spirit of a trendy cult flick . The film just takes off from the first slow frame and by the end , you 're going `` Wow ! '' 	Visually inventive and gleefully over the top , Luc Besson 's The Fifth Element is a fantastic piece of pop sci-fi that never takes itself too seriously .
no 2012 The film provides a fascinating history lesson in the guise of backstage drama , honeycombed with antique-looking TV commercials full of Lycra-clad dancers and gambolling mimes . The understated performance by Bernal was inspiring , as was the pic . The most cutting gag is just how much Saavedra 's political ads resemble his recent campaign for a diet cola . And the punch line is that they work . A terrific and thrilling drama about the power of hope , of optimism , and of bravery in the face of intimidation , and very real and extreme physical danger . Neatly combines political conflict with marketing satire to form a vivid look at the 1988 plebiscite that overthrew Chile 's dictator Augusto Pinochet Larrain 's bizarre decision to make his film blend in with its extensive passages of archive footage by shooting in U-matic - the default TV production format of the 1980s - makes for an uncomfortable cinematic viewing experience . Tense throughout , even for history-savvy auds , but still rich in the sort of Andean-soil-black humor that made Larrain 's previous work so distinctive . If there are fewer white-knuckle showdowns than in a Hollywood movie , the trade-off is a cool , ironic intelligence that ripples off the screen and up the years to where we live . ... like Mad Men , it 's a period piece set in the world of advertising and it pays a distracting ( and sometimes humorous ) amount of attention to period details . A mesmerizing , realistic and often hilarious look at the politics of power and the power of ideas ... 	No uses its history-driven storyline to offer a bit of smart , darkly funny perspective on modern democracy and human nature .
day watch Big , stupid and nonsensical Just another high concept/low content entry into the blockbuster market . Day watch is nonsense . But it 's glorious nonsense . Aside from one stunning image of a sports car skidding along the face of a curved high-rise hotel , Night Watch fails to even equal its forebear 's handful of flashy CG moments . `` Daywatch '' looks huge -- Bekmambetov really knows how to marshal his limited resources . But the picture feels heavy ; sitting through it is like swimming through lard . Part zombie , part vampire and all a pain in the neck . Chockablock with neat ideas - so many , in fact , that they ultimately end up crowding each other out ... goofy , monumental fun , until it sort of is n't . It delivers more cutting-edge eye candy but defies any attempt at understanding . One hell of a movie . The first film ... had style and a specifically Russian streak of dark angst . Day Watch continues in that tradition but adds one unexpected element -- a weird sense of humor . 	Day Watch is frequently cheesy but it offers enough twists , surprises , and inventive action sequences to maintain viewer interest .
his dark materials the golden compass I heard the dialogue , I saw the images , but I never got into the story . I was always aware that I was sitting in a theater watching a movie . 'The Golden Compass ' concludes in a way that left me feeling teased and cheated . ... the film possesses few attributes designed to draw in ( and hold the interest of ) neophytes . ... the cast is deadly serious , bringing each character to life and giving the audience a reason to cheer or boo them and their actions . This Compass points to the end of a would-be franchise . The Golden Compass bears the brush strokes of a film produced by a committee of people intent on trying to make some money rather than a good movie . Deus ex machina ... is the only driving force . Like every other story that pits the Haves against the Have-Nots . [ Kidman 's Mrs. Coulter is ] a movie villain worth remembering -- in fact , if she were any more evil , she would have to change her name from Marisa to Ann . Lyra surpasses the timid drone of Pan 's Labyrinth or the Pevensies ' do-gooder sap , she 's brave , smart , and the best liar in the universe . 	Without the bite or the controversy of the source material , The Golden Compass is reduced to impressive visuals overcompensating for lax storytelling .
meet the parents A definite must-see that 's perfect for a guys ' night out or a relaxing date . Stiller has a gift for looking funny effortlessly , when he 's doing nothing physical . With no mugging , no physical contortions , he turns his face into a palette of pain and confusion . Meet the Parents has all the elements of either a bedroom farce or a Hardy Boys mystery . Turns out it 's the former , and a mighty funny one at that . Very fun and very entertaining . There is an uneven mix of slapstick sequences and human comedy . Certainly the last part of the film feels awkwardly written . Packed with cringe-worthy moments from beginning to end , Jay Roach 's comedy is for anyone who has ever endured a weekend in the company of potential in-laws . Es lamentable que el talento de DeNiro se est desperdiciando en cintas que no terminan de cuajar , por muy taquilleras que stas sean Meet the Parents is a one- -- well , maybe two- -- joke idea that starts out goofy and fun , but soon runs out of verbal or visual ammunition . You could n't do much better than to pit De Niro at his most humorlessly imposing against Ben Stiller at his most anxiously eager to please . If you can just accept the fact that real human behavior has been thrown out the window like the baby in Andy Warhol 's Bad , then you 'll have a really good time watching Stiller and De Niro square off . 	Despite sometimes sitcom-like execution , Meet the Parents is a hilarious look at familial relationships that works mostly because the chemistry between its two leads is so effective .
down-to-the-bone Conventional movies , even independent ones , tend to get histrionic and judgmental about such drug-related setbacks . But Granik 's film , though hardly a clinical case study , keeps a measured distance from the heavy-handed or simplistic . You 'll see relative unknown Farmiga deliver one of those subtle , controlled , humane performances that should win Oscars but never do because the Oscars are a lot of jive . Whether you 're ready for the ride depends on whether you 're looking for traditional filmic fare , or whether you 're in the mood to be dragged into the depths of depression . Down to the Bone emerges with an aura of authenticity so strong as to be mesmerizing , thanks to a superior script brought to life with infallibly natural performances ... Granik brings to her drama a clear-eyed realism as she charts one woman 's descent into a drug-fueled purgatory . The film is so pitch perfect and realistic , it seems you are there with these people , watching their lives unfold before you as it happens . Farmiga effectively shows the fear , need and hope at war within Irene , how the false high of being clean for a week can fade when she realizes the second week is n't going to be any easier . The movie boasts a fantastic performance by Vera Farmiga and an exceedingly unhappy storyline . It 's a movie you `` appreciate '' more than you `` enjoy . '' A quietly harrowing chronicle of addiction and fragile recovery anchored by Vera Farmiga 's intense performance . Unlike most movies about addictions , Down to the Bone does n't follow the usual , comforting three-act structure -- social user develops a problem , user becomes a desperate addict , user finally gets some help . 	A vivid portrayal of the effects of drug abuse that avoids cinematic clichs , Down to the Bone is a winning effort that features Vera Farmiga 's breakout performance .
stranger by the lake There 's too much metaphysical packaging material in the story ; it 's half Styrofoam peanuts . But its ideas are intriguing and its murky suspense is undeniable . A gripping and superbly directed picture with something to say about the nature of infatuation and obsession . When was the last time you saw an erotic thriller that worked simultaneously on both levels ? A simple and ruthlessly effective exercise in minimal narrative and style , Alain Guiraudie 's moral tale is so restrained and atmospheric that the nudity and graphic sex do n't upstage the creepy mood of seductive , inescapable doom . I thought the film silly if endearing . Fluff noir . Others , peering into the crystal , see and prophesy a cult future for filmmaker Alain Guiraudie . The movie is voyeuristic , sure , but in a way that evokes Alfred Hitchcock 's Rear Window more than William Friedkin 's Cruising . A captivating , and enticing watch . Hitchcock by way of Cruising . Like his characters , [ director Alain ] Guiraudie is walking a tightrope , finding the point where sex and death exude a similar allure . You wo n't be able to look away . Perfect , in that it achieves exactly what it meant to ... portrays the world of casual sex and cruising with almost journalistic proficiency . 	Sexy , smart , and darkly humorous , Stranger by the Lake offers rewarding viewing for adult filmgoers in search of thought-provoking drama .
brick lane Sarah Gavron 's Brick Lane , from a screenplay by Abi Morgan and Laura Jones , is based on the rapturously received 500-page first novel by Monica Ali . Weighty tearjerker with mature themes . ... an economically poignant melodrama about a young Muslim girl 's fragile mindset and the journey that leads to her self-discovery ... relentlessly affecting in mind and consciousness . The daily grind of a Brick Lane Bangladeshi is credibly brought to life in this sensitive and intelligent adaptation of Monica Ali 's novel . A warm bath in comfortable platitudes . A poetic and sensitive drama about a Bangladesh village girl 's life in England and her valiant struggle to stand on her own in the world with a full and grateful heart In Chanu , it creates an indelible protagonist . He thinks he is a man of ideas . He is a man who , when it counts , is full of common sense and uncommon feeling . Sarah Gavron 's adaptation of Monica Ali 's novel is a thoughtful and often evocative drama of identity and assimilation ... Relative newcomer Chatterjee is a revelation as Nazneen . It 's her character 's predicament that holds our interest . Brick Lane feels slight and late to the table . Still , its pretty musings about small-scale self-actualization can be seductive . 	Frustratingly slow-moving , but ultimately saved by Chatterjee 's solid acting and Gavron 's gentle patience .
out cold The best that can be said of Out Cold is that it is generally more lame than obnoxious . Its only redeeming value is the killer snowboarding scenes . When Lee Majors can steal every scene he 's in , your movie 's in trouble . Dim-witted even by adolescent gross-out-movie standards . Lame , sophomoric and pretty much what you 'd expect for a film such as this , Out Cold is likely to disappear from theaters about on pace with a snowball 's chance in you know where . Funnier than Woody Allen 's last four movies , more exciting than Tarkovski 's The Sacrifice , Out Cold will play best if your first legal beer is still far enough into the future to seem a vision of the promised land . As in the old beach movies , a great deal of screen time is devoted to the astounding exploits of stunt doubles , who here are riding powdered snow rather than waves . As if to justify a serious discussion of this comedy before dissing it , some reviewers have pointed out that it evokes Casablanca . Funnier than it has any right to be and it 's generally enjoyable . Out Cold is basically Porky 's in the snow , and it 's a pale imitation at that . You ca n't go into this movie expecting anything innovative . 	A party movie that substitutes surfs for snow , Out Cold will leave viewers just that with its gross-out humor and sophomoric plot .
confessions of a dangerous mind I got tired of looking at George 's butt in Solaris , and I felt the same of Rockwell here . Witty , smart and absurdly funny . The concoction entertains from beginning to end , though the lessons of Barris ' life are as slippery as his facts . Not quite as brilliant , quirky or insightful at it might have been or as some would like , the film nevertheless kept me interested and entertained most of the time . The movie is compulsively watchable even if it never quite convinces you that it 's much more than a fanciful story . As director , Clooney uses his visuals to create a great story . However , the script is more of a teether for Charlie Kaufman and is overwhelmed by taking the material way too literally . Although delightfully overzealous , Clooney 's field trip of loose-ended frivolity sputters aimlessly in our attempts to embrace a complicated soul being presented as a sympathetic human question mark . Clooney 's version of a beautiful mind blends Kaufman lunacy with a surreal story . unfolds in a striking visual palette of washed out colors and deep shadows , almost as if we 're watching it on an old television set whose picture tube is about to burn out Thanks to Clooney , Confessions of a Dangerous Mind is colorful , fast-moving and fun , but never without its bittersweet hint of madness . 	Rockwell is spot-on as Barris , and Clooney directs with entertaining style and flair .
southland tales They 've left it late , but writer-director Richard Kelly ( Donnie Darko ) and his team have gone and scooped The Independent 's Worst Film of 2007 award - against stiff competition , too . No doubt some will dismiss it as an overlong , incoherent mess , but others ( myself included ) will emerge , bleary-eyed and brain-battered , just wanting to see the whole thing all over again . There 's barely a trace of substance to Kelly 's fiasco , nor anything like a so-bad-it's-good vibe . By the climax , his truly ambitious , truly flawed film finally disappears into the 'time-space rift ' ( or whatever ) to achieve some sort of cosmic transcendence . A Schwarzeneggerian actor , related to a political dynasty , has been kidnapped , replaced with a double , and -- I give up . A plot synopsis would require that the movie have a plot . The movie 's failure to come together -- indeed to make sense for most of its 144 minutes , each one passing with the speed of molasses -- is a major disappointment . Kelly seems to think that to merely mention Fallujah or global warming -- or to name a bank after Karl Rove -- is the same as actually having an opinion about them . There 's more . Much more , all of it absurd and confusing . That is n't necessarily meant as a complaint . In a world of mediocre , formulaic fare that is like everything else that has come before it , Southland Tales stands invigoratingly apart from the crowd . It 's ballsy , fascinatingly different and thoroughly commendable . Not much improvement over the vfirst , severely flawed version . 	Southland Tales , while offering an intriguing vision of the future , remains frustratingly incoherent and unpolished .
lady and the tramp A somewhat dry , but very good Disney animated effort punctuated by a few Disney-defining classic moments . The wider canvas and extra detail work reportedly meant an additional 30 % in negative cost . It was a sound investment . Share the love of `` Lady and the Tramp '' with your loved ones this Valentine 's Day . ... somewhat overrated ... Disney 's imagination seems at a low ebb , saddled with a shrunken , excessively naturalistic style in line with the diminished possibilities of postwar animation , and not yet graced by the inspiration that would redeem that style in Sleeping Beauty . The vintage animation is brilliant , and Disney has done a wonderful job with the transfer to DVD . With cracking music , a rollicking pace and dialogue that stands up to scrutiny , Lady and the Tramp really is among Walt 's very best . One of Disney 's simplest and most delightful animated features Classic Disney dogs paw their way into hearts . Parents used to having their kids explain films to them will have their hands full on this one . 	A nostalgic charmer , Lady and the Tramp 's token sweetness is mighty but the songs and richly colored animation are technically superb and make for a memorable experience .
madagascar 3 europes most wanted 2012 Third chapter ( and first in 3D ) in the popular franchise benefits from fast pacing , bright colors , dazzling circus acts , vigorous villain , and some new charcaters . `` The best of the Madagascar films '' might not be the most ringing endorsement ever committed to newsprint , but DreamWorks Animation has finally found the franchise 's groove in this pyrotechnic third instalment . Whether you have kids , will never have kids , have to take your nephews , your nieces , or some random kid , you 're gon na be able to get though this movie . There is a lot of fun stuff in here for everyone . Short and silly , it 's frenetically paced and visually dazzling , filled with high-flying acrobatics . The action zips along , the visuals dazzle and the gags zing . The best in the series so far . My favorite of the `` Madagascars . '' The film has a message worth grasping ; sometimes it takes a departure from your comfort zone to truly understand what you have in life and what 's important to you . Exhausting , but still funny ; with actual jokes meant for viewers over eight . It 's not top-shelf booze , but irreverence wins out . The story in Madagascar 3 is functional , but the antically civilized spirit is infectious . This is a movie that 's constantly in motion , with slapstick flair . 	Dazzlingly colorful and frenetic , Madagascar 3 is silly enough for young kids , but boasts enough surprising smarts to engage parents along the way .
jurassic park Fads may come and go , but dinosaurs will always be cool ... a fact for which Jurassic Park should be eternally grateful . In the end , Jurassic Park succeeds because it 's good entertainment . We ask for two things from big-budget thrillers like this : Make us believe and make us jump . Jurassic Park delivers on both counts . Despite the ridiculous premise , Jurassic Park does an incredible job of showing us what dinosaurs might have looked and acted like . The 3-D process adds not just dimension but depth - a technological extension of cinematographer Gregg Toland 's deep-focus innovations in The Grapes of Wrath and Citizen Kane . The change in perspective creates greater intensity . Steven Spielberg 's Jurassic Park first introduced me to what movie magic can be . As an action film , as an auteurist vision , as a blockbuster , as a humanist statement ... it 's a masterpiece . There 's more soul to be found in any Kong close-up than in this film 's overplayed reactions . This movie does n't just stand the test of time , it transcends it . True , the dialogue and performances are feeble , but the thing is basically no more -- and no less -- than a nifty monster movie that delivers crackerjack thrills . 	Jurassic Park is a spectacle of special effects and life-like animatronics , with some of Spielberg 's best sequences of sustained awe and sheer terror since Jaws .
omar Does n't provide easy answers as it builds its pressure cooker environment , putting primary attention on the personalities involved , allowing for a human perspective as it details acts of breathless survival and suffocating paranoia . By focusing on an everyman , Abu-Assad immediately makes Omar 's claustrophobic lifetyle immediately relatable - which tinges his ultimate hardships with palpable dread . Abu-Assad does a masterful job of showing , in these seemingly hopeless circumstances , the fragility of life . The film works best as a straightforward melodrama set in an anything but straightforward world . As in his Golden Globe-winning 2005 drama Paradise Now , Israeli filmmaker Hany Abu-Assad takes a complex , personal approach to a touchy political-religious situation in this Palestinian love story . Paradise Now and The Battle of Algiers explored why people under occupation resort to terrorism ; Omar turns its attention to the broader , more long-term consequences of living in oppressed conditions . A tender love story , a haunting tragedy and an expertly crafted thriller with flawed , damaged and not entirely likable characters . Writer-director Hany Abu-Assad is more interested in the ideas within his slow-burn thriller than in plot machinations . A tense , involving combination of love story and thriller . The virtues of `` Omar , '' a thriller about the Palestinian conflict , are overshadowed by a one-sided political message . 	Twisty and riveting , Omar is a well-directed crime drama with uncommon depth .
batkid begins Nachman 's documentary does a great job of showing the many pieces that came into place for Miles ' moment , but it does n't look much at what 's underneath it all . Almost all the talking heads are excited and proud , filling the film with a positive electricity . It 's a power that most docs of such simplicity just do n't have . It emphasizes just how much effort went into pulling the day together , and it 's a fitting tribute to the volunteers who went above and beyond to bring a little boy 's dream to life . Marveling without questioning , the movie is content to package the phenomenon and coast on its feel-good wave . Yet , somewhere around the midpoint , I began to wonder who was most thrilled by all this fuss . It tells the story in a powerful and uncomplicated way . As a perhaps accidental commentary on the ephemerality of Internet life , with events - even big ones , like the one captured here - coming into being then passing into oblivion , lost in the ever-towering haystack that is Google , it 's fascinating . As a record of the event it 's amiable enough , but also a bit ragged and more than a little self-satisfied . It 's refreshing to see a film that 's completely lacking in cynicism . `` Batkid Begins '' does n't have answers for our many troubles , nor will it change the world , but it provides hope for humanity , and that 's something we surely need to see more of right now . This is not to diminish the incredible efforts put forth by many on that 2013 day . But if Batkid Begins is meant to chronicle those events , why does it seem so incurious about getting to the roots of how such a phenomenon occurred ? 	Sweet and unabashedly sentimental , Batkid Begins is an uplifting look at a selfless act that brought a city together .
good year Russell Crowe may find himself discovering the simple joys of life in A Good Year , but audiences will be checking their watches during this joyless attempt at comedy . Close your eyes . And now imagine the whole thing re-cast and shot by Stanley Donen back in , say , 1962 , with Cary Grant and Leslie Caron . Russell Crowe trying to twinkle may not be the most unsettling thing on the big screen this season , but it 's up there . When did Russell Crowe morph into Jimmy Fallon ? You practically can see Crowe screaming to the audience , 'Do n't you like me ? I really really want you to like me . ' For those who do n't mind pictures that fall into predictable rhythms , A Good Year represents a pleasant diversion . Crowe has located his funnybone again in a conventional but engaging romantic comedy ... A Good Year suggests not so much the stirring of a soul as Sir Ridley grinding his teeth behind the camera , grimly muttering `` I 'm going to be breezy if it kills me , goddamit ! '' the scenery 's about the only thing worth appreciating in this mediocre Year . It 's an ambitious experiment , and not a completely successful one . Magically transports us to the sensuous setting of southern France where memory , love , and a grand fondness for place conspire to alter the life of a selfish London trader 	A Good Year is a fine example of a top-notch director and actor out of their elements , in a sappy romantic comedy lacking in charm and humor .
gunner palace A video diary about staying alive during an ill-defined , unconventionally dangerous tour of duty . If you have conflicted feelings about the war in Iraq , prepare for them to be even more conflicted after the movie ends . A riveting and indispensable record of the war in Iraq because it comes from the men who lived it . This enlightening and disturbing documentary offers a spell-binding view of how individual soldiers are reacting to their mission in Iraq . Compelling viewing . This past week the 1500th American died in Iraq , making the documentary Gunner Palace all too timely . Gunner Palace 's casually hectic verite style overflows with the feverish identification of the deeply , if fleetingly , embedded outsider . Tucker takes it all in without taking a stand , though his sympathies -- expressed through voiceover narration -- clearly lie with the men and women in the field . Offers viewers an extraordinarily revealing portrait of the soldiers ' lives in Baghdad , and how they weather the stress of being under constant siege . The soldiers uncover no weapons of mass destruction at the wrecked palace , though they do find a putting green and a swimming pool . 	A shapeless documentary , but shows what 's it like for the soldiers on the ground .
millers crossing There is a lot here to admire . It is consistently good , but I suppose I have come to expect more from the Coens . It 's arguably the US mainstream 's first art movie since Days of Heaven ; and quite wonderful . The Coen Brothers certainly know noir . This mob tale shimmers with sparkling dialogue . Substance is here in spades , along with the twisted , brilliantly controlled style on which filmmakers Joel and Ethan Coen made a name . Not a false move , a bad angle , an awkward line or a wanting performance at any point . ... whether we 're supposed to take it as a dark comedy or a straightforward melodrama is up to the viewer . A little of both , maybe . The Coens have always been a little twisted . A stylized reworking of the generic gangster film . It never fully convinces in terms of either period or plot . The Coens ' take on Depression-era gangster flicks , looks gorgeous and showcases John Turturro 's best acting ever . 	Though possibly more notable for its distinctive style than an airtight story , this Coen brothers take on the classic gangster flick features sharp dialogue , impressive cinematography , and a typically quirky cast of characters .
shake hands with the devil the journey of romeo dallaire It gives us a man who could have stopped the carnage -- 800,000 murdered in 100 days -- but whose hands were bound at the highest level . He knows this , it haunts him , and if it does n't shame you , it should . You ca n't imagine a worse situation , but at the same time it 's hard to imagine that a better man could 've been on the scene , even if he was rendered powerless in the face of evil . Dallaire is not only the protagonist of Shake Hands , he is a compelling reason to see it . A tragic reminder of how that overused epithet , 'Never again ' , makes hypocrites of us all . It 's a highly moving film and also an angry one . Offers a rare and privileged portrait of a heroic man profoundly troubled by a terrible experience . Shake Hands is less about one man than about a U.N. structurally incapable of carrying out its peacekeeping mandate , then and now . The result is at once a document of destruction ( via narration and newsreel footage ) , an indictment of the world community , and a testimony to the resilience of those abandoned people . A far more resonant film than that offered by concurrent narrative feature Hotel Rwanada . Poses an essential question : How can you shame an international community that , even now , seems constitutionally incapable of it ? 	A gut-wrenching documentary about the man in charge of the UN peace keeping force during the 1994 Rwanda genocide of 800,000 Tutsi and moderate Hutus .
1002448-birds Few films depict so eerily yet so meticulously the metaphysical and historical sense of a world out of joint . Although not as horrifically shocking as `` Psycho , '' `` The Birds '' is a more sophisticated film , and represents a high watermark in the prolific career of a true maestro of cinema . Hitchcock creature-feature gets off the ground but never soars . Hailed as one of Hitchcock 's masterpieces by some and despised by others , The Birds is certainly among the director 's more complex and fascinating works . Inventive classic . The Birds is most notable though for turning something completely harmless into an incredible menace -- all with absolutely no explanation . Feels like it was made by a brilliant filmmaker who simply felt challenged by the enormity of the task . In that regard , it 's close to 100 percent successful . The Birds ( 1963 ) , another Hitchcock thriller/masterpiece , his first film with Universal Studios , is the apocalyptic story of a northern California coastal town Mr. Hitchcock and his associates have constructed a horror film that should raise the hackles of the most courageous and put goose-pimples on the toughest hide . Still a dream come true after you 've met enough Californians . 	Proving once again that build-up is the key to suspense , Alfred Hitchcock successfully turned birds into some of the most terrifying villains in horror history .
treeless mountain Whatever magic filmmaker So Yong Kim used to get the two girls to feel so at ease , you wish she would have used a little of that on the rest of the film as well . While it is a fairly realistic and no-frills drama , it 's also dull . The big payoff moment is so small and passes so quietly that it 's almost unbearably beautiful . very real magic emanates from Treeless Mountain like vapor from a block of dry ice Skillfully unsentimental -- because of , but also despite , the presence of two irresistible , unself-conscious performers in virtually every scene . Too many filmmakers look down -- literally and figuratively -- on children . But in the carefully observed Treeless Mountain , So Young Kim gets us to immediately identify with her young heroines . I crossed . It 's the sort of `` slice of life '' that defies words , which is perhaps why these little girls and their overwhelmingly grey world are rendered in such quietude . Treeless Mountain has the tang of real life , though this is realism that has been filtered through 60 or so years of world art cinema . This very personal , naturalistic Korean film is all about emotional damage , and it 's a real heartbreaker . Both lovely and wrenching , So Yong Kim 's intimate drama feels so honest , it 's often difficult to watch . So Yong Kim has a real gift for putting children at ease before the camera , and her two very young actresses ( who are not sisters off-screen ) reward her with performances of heartbreaking realism . 	Intermittently wondrous and harsh , this sensitive drama about two abandoned sisters gives time and space to the intimate and beautiful moments of childhood .
shine Faultless performances from all the cast help deliver a film of humour and warmth . [ Helfgott 's ] extraordinary life is intelligently charted here , and the three actors who play him at different stages are all exceptional . Shine beams with warmth , sensitivity , and fine taste , but some of that illumination is the work of our own reflector lamps . A tremendous biopic about overcoming the odds . It 's what 'A Beautiful Mind ' wants to grow up to be . If , at times , Shine 's luster reveals more elbow grease than internal radiance , the movie is still a moving tribute to the human capacity to overcome all odds . God save us from yet another holy fool movie . Geoffrey Rush has been much better . I declare `` Shine '' to be the best film of the year ! Shine has a story to reckon with and powerhouse male performances . It is a passionately told story , in highly cinematic yet accessible language , about one life : what makes it extraordinary is the performance of Geoffrey Rush and the rest of the cast . Despite all the feel-good overtones , the story never gets sappy , sentimental , or manipulative 	Featuring a strong performance from Geoffrey Rush , Shine succeeds in telling a compelling , inspirational story without resorting to cheap sentimentality .
silverado The actors shift gears effortlessly , playing their parts with seriousness when the situation calls for it , but also enjoying those moments that are intended to be fun . A good movie , although it 's sometimes too antiseptic for what a Western should be . There 's some great shoot-out scenes . Called `` revisionist '' upon release in a bizarre misuse of the term , Silverado is neither something new nor something paying homage but rather a hollow facsimile If you like Westerns , you 'll love Silverado . Engrossing western which inspired a huge genre revivial . A big stampede of a movie with ideas and scenes thundering off in dozens of directions . Engrossing western that never got the recognition it deserved This is a story , you will agree , that has been told before . What distinguishes Kasdan 's telling of it is the style and energy he brings to the project . Should by rights swim in hokiness , but it 's a bumptious classic . Kasdan resorts to a TV-like shorthand , substituting shtick for personality . 	Boasting rich detail and well-told story , Silverado is a rare example of an '80s Hollywood Western done right .
up the yangtze China 's public image suffers another blow with Up the Yangtze , a docu mentary by Chinese-Canadian Yung Chang . There 's plenty for the director to focus on . Examining the dam 's environmental impact alone would take another whole movie . Instead , [ director ] Yung trains his lens mainly on the cultural impact . Up The Yangtze goes from sleepily hypnotic to riveting over the course of 90 minutes . Its range of subjects and emotions cuts a surprisingly wide swath . An astonishing documentary of culture clash and the erasure of history amid China 's economic miracle . With all these lyrical elements in play , [ director Yung ] Chang 's extraneous voiceover narration is baffling , and all but unbearable . Like all the best documentaries , Up the Yangtze shows us something we 've never seen before , with insight and meaning . Up the Ynagtze goes down in movie history as a work of lasting value Chang 's fluid camera captures the river 's vanishing beauty , as well as the dichotomy between Yu Shui 's rural poverty and Chen Bo Yu 's urban lifestyle . Up the Yangtze is a reminder that every little family matters and that economic miracles are zero-sum games . This is a sad film to be sure , but highly accomplished and very effective . 	Up the Yangtze is a visually stunning meditation about the changes confronting modern China .
1195103-happy go lucky An upbeat seriocomedy about an ever-smiling eternal optimist . Leigh pushes the story in a more interesting direction , asking whether people find happiness or simply will it on themselves . Expertly directed by Mike Leigh , Happy-Go-Lucky is not only joyous but substantial . There is something infectious and unique about Poppy 's joy , and Leigh seems to have caught the bug . Poppy ca n't make everyone happy , but for many of us , she 'll do all right . As surprising as it is delicious with an indelible performance by new star Sally Hawkins . That smile is so winning it 's almost transcendent ( kind of like Julia Roberts ' smile , back when she used to smile ) . But it 's Hawkins ' depth that ultimately sells the film 's premise . At 65 , director Mike Leigh proves an old dog can turn new tricks . Poppy is upbeat so relentlessly upbeat that it wo n't take long before you 're wondering just how the director plans to wipe the smile off her face . In the end , Hawkins ' vivid characterization alone justifies Happy-Go-Lucky . The hamfistedness of the script sadly undermines what probably should have registered as a towering performance . It feels modest while you 're watching it , but the more I think about it , the more I love it . 	Mike Leigh 's latest partially-improvised film is a light-hearted comedy with moments that bite , and features a brilliant star turn by Sally Hawkins .
homeward bound the incredible journey This film is clever even with its human actors , dispensing with the first film 's animal-loving hermits and playing up the importance of a cute , newly typical American family . An unexpected delight . A sprightly little entertainment that should enthrall tots without straining the patience of their parents . As an episode of The Wonderful World of Disney , it would be fine , but as a major motion picture , it 's disappointing . It has a certain craftsmanship and an undeniable charm , and if you find yourself watching it with a child you may end up liking it almost as much . Matters are accomplished by director Duwayne Dunham with fairly professional skill . Adventurous animal tale will have kids riveted . Totally uncorrupting . Brighter and breezier than many movies starring humans nowadays . having suffered with my human through the dim-witted Beethoven and the dreadful Bingo , I found Homeward Bound to be a breath of animal-oriented realism , voice-overs or no . 	Disney 's remake of The Incredible Journey successfully replicates , and in some ways improves upon , the simple charms of the original , with its cross-country animal odyssey sure to delight kids .
blue car The film is strengthened by the two leading performances . ... falters because it hews too closely to the witless cant of the average guy as a potential sex criminal . It 's rare that a first-time director demonstrates such a sure hand , but Moncrieff is the real deal . At the film 's center Bruckner more than holds her own , beautifully capturing the anger , uncertainty and yearnings of an unhappy kid impatient for her 'real ' life to begin . The film raises predictability to new levels . Blue Car may not be in the category of a classic , but it 's certainly not a total wreck ( more like a fixer-upper that 's serviceable ) . Certainly no feel-good flick of the summer . But it 's always tough and honest . It 's rare that a movie makes a viewer experience the psychodynamics of an encounter so profoundly -- usually theater is a better medium for that -- but Moncrieff has exceptional skills . Intimate , honest , if occasionally contrived . For the most part , Blue Car succeeds in fulfilling Meg 's assignment to 'touch the hidden nerve . ' 	A cautionary tale that rings true .
croupier Gambling and gamblers are a movie staple , but Croupier comes at the sport and its population from a fresh and , finally , rewardingly wide perspective . For once here is a British film that is both tough and intelligent , and so well-researched that it will probably tell you more about how casinos work than had it been a documentary . Clive Owen 's breakthrough role This is an overlooked noir thriller ... Croupier also offers an intriguing look at the writing process and the allure of writing , which in part is the ability to pull strings . It 's a real surprise to watch Hodges examine the humanity of his characters instead of just having them run around and kill each other . A quite satisfying examination of a man caught between his need to feel and his fear of feeling too much . Owen is superb . A spare , seductive , almost novelistic suspense drama . Ultimately , it 's the finely drawn characters , the unusual setting and a completely engrossing story that make this one a winner . 	The writer slumming for human truths and real experience is a common enough story , but this cool-headed and slick thriller provides a gut-churningly compelling backdrop to a look at our darker sides .
mumford Simply a nice film . But that 's not as much of a compliment as it sounds . Simple and sweet , but unforgivably trite . Kasdan makes good use of all the actors involved , and each one hits the right note -- Dean , Davis and Lee are particularly good . After so many gross offenses committed in the name of comedy lately , here 's a film whose humor rests on the audacious assumption that you , the moviegoer , have a brain . It 's witty , entertaining , often funny as hell and even , at times , surprisingly wise about the human condition . The film is quite well acted , notably by Dean . This film is smart , but also entertaining -- made to go with popcorn , a cola and , well , Prozac . A restful , realistic remedy for the past summer 's wild ride . A likable semi-screwball comedy . Hope Davis deserves much of credit for making Mumford work . 	Memorable moments are few and far between .
amores perros A tightly edited , wildly energetic paean to the trauma of relationships , between people and between people and their dogs . Iarritu keeps us involved in at-times tune-outable material . Compels almost effortlessly , and skilfully conceals its thefts ( from Tarantino , mostly ) , easy ironies , and insubstantiality . Inventively restless and relentlessly potent . Amores Perros is more than just a strong debut ; it 's good , gritty filmmaking . Almost entirely a surface phenomenon , fascinating to look at but pretty empty beneath a raucously mesmerizing exterior . Just keeps coming at you , switching characters , tones , and rhythms to keep you off-guard . Nominated for an Oscar as best foreign-language film , it 's a movie that 's all over the lot ( and interestingly so ) . An overpowering and original piece of bravura filmmaking that constitutes one of the most breathtaking and impressive directing debuts in years . Seemingly uneven , Questionably overlong , Indisputably intriguing 	The brutality of Amores Perros may be difficult to watch at times , but this intense , gritty film packs a hard wallop .
shortbus Shortbus is perhaps the most wittily and gleefully performed feature film to contain actual sex scenes . The premise -- a roundelay of New Yorkers looking for connection , or to escape it -- feels tired . [ Shortbus ] will give adults who are n't put off by zoo-naked sex more to talk about , even in disparagement , than anything showing at the Cineplex . Shortbus is chipper , it 's fresh , it emits a distinct musk of controversy . I 'll take the longbus . The film proves that nudity and unbridled sexuality alone are not enough to entertain . Fetishists are people , too ! The premise of this story is pretty fascinating but it seems that it gets diluted , not enhanced by the sheer amount of sex . I would be fakin ' it if I recommended this movie . Lancingly funny , brash and alive , this hotsie-totsie peeper aches for love , and the gay fire of pre-AIDs partydom . A film that 's thoughtful and exuberant , achingly sad and wildly funny . At a time when American moviegoers have become numb to the rampant , mainstream pornography of violence , it 's refreshing to see a non-mainstream movie that wears its heart and lust on its sleeve , and has anything but violence on its mind . 	The sex may be explicit , but Mitchell integrates it into the characters ' lives and serves the whole story up with a generous dose of sweetness and wit .
1211619-remember me This mawkish trash is bad enough even before it stoops to using the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks for sympathy . Unforgivable . Much better than you might expect . The ill-conceived climax will strike the easily manipulated as deep but will cause most discerning viewers to recognize it for a cheap trick that should come with some sort of trigger warning before it unfolds . Screenwriter Will Fetters stretches 30 minutes of drama to almost two hours of screen time , relying on the actors to scowl and brood while they wait for something to happen to their characters . ... too overripe in the melodrama department for modern audiences , but it features some credible acting and a ten hanky weep for those in the mood . The film gets bogged down by plot points that plod toward an event of devastating proportions . There are no less than four tremendous performances in the film . I hate the ending . I hate it . I hate it . I hate it . I hate it more than Kim Basinger hates Alec Baldwin . I hate more than Garfield hates Mondays . It turns out Robert Pattinson sparkles after all . [ T ] he script shimmers with sensitivity and a meticulous attention to emotional detail ... This shameless romantic drama tries to wring tears out of susceptible audiences by exploiting one of the most infamous , tragic moments in America 's recent past . 	Its leads are likeable , but Remember Me suffers from an overly maudlin script and a borderline offensive final twist .
timbuktu 2015 Sissako captures his story with poetic precision rather than gritty realism . Each shot is deliberately composed , and the transitions to new scenes follow a unique rhythm . A film that 's guaranteed to resonate for years to come . Sissako 's film offers a fearlessly poetic response to the jihadist occupation ; its tone is never preachy and it is beautiful to watch . An unflinching , quietly furious exploration of life under radical Islamist rule . It also makes a point about power that even nonextremist , democratically elected leaders would do well to keep in mind . The kind of mature polemical filmmaking that ca n't help but seem singular , because few political-issue-type directors try it , and even fewer get it right . Sissako may be preaching to the converted here , but he does so with elegance , intelligence and beauty . A film that 's a mix of tones , of satire and melodrama and tragedy , that somehow jells . Eye-opening but never didactic , Sissako 's beautifully shot film immerses us in a reality we usually experience as no more than a headline . Terrible things happen in Timbuktu . There are also moments of striking poetry and subtle humour . Rather than shock , Sissako envelops us in a heavy sadness as beauty and happiness is destroyed by the same species who had created it ... 	Gracefully assembled and ultimately disquieting , Timbuktu is a timely film with a powerful message .
me and you and everyone we know So strangely charming that you ca n't help but warm up to [ Miranda July 's ] wonderfully odd view of the world ... A film of indescribable and often unmentionable charm , Me and You and Everyone We Know is one of those completely unexpected artistic experiences , a work from an unknown with such a compelling , unique perspective that it boggles and inspires . A film brimming with unexpected moments , bristling with creative energy and filled with humanity and compassion . [ T ] ruly art : uncomfortable in the incisiveness of [ its ] observations , aggressively attuned to the ordinary ... Generally maintains a lovely humanism . Commercially , this IFC release is better suited for the IFC Channel . You laugh now and then , but mostly you smile -- at the simple connections people make , at the guileless screenplay , at the general tone of wonderment and love for mankind . As in The Center of the World , July 's focus is on people 's deformed longing for human connection . A strangely affecting and often very funny meditation on modern-day alienation . July 's suspiciously contrived awkwardness notwithstanding , the picture is at its best when it cleaves to her experimental video aesthetic ; framing the mundane with the wonder of a child-like perspective . 	Miranda July 's debut feature is a charmingly offbeat and observant film about people looking for love .
never say never again Although this movie is n't perfect , it is good enough that you truly wish Connery had never said never again . Brandauer is a great Bond villain , and the role still fits Connery like an old tux . Ah , yes , James , it is good to have you back again . The plot , which owes much to Thunderball , lurches badly at times , but the wild action set pieces , decked out in gals , gadgets and glib lines , are there to be cherished . ... one of the most sophisticated of the Bonds . Aside from some minor flaws , the film is a surprisingly standard Bond film , one that could easily be integrated into the `` official '' franchise with very few adjustments . Gone is the excessive gadgetry that mars Bond films , and , as a result , the characters are more prominent and colorful . An ugly , unwanted epilogue [ to Connery 's Bond ] , in which the character who was so iconic and perfect is reduced to a self-conscious joke . The slick production values impress and Barbara Carrera and Klaus Maria Brandauer are good value villains , but Irvin Kershner appears to have nodded off in the director 's chair . In Never Say Never Again , the formula is broadened to accommodate an older , seasoned man of much greater stature , and Mr. Connery expertly fills the bill . 	While the rehashed story feels rather uninspired and unnecessary , the return of both Sean Connery and a more understated Bond make Never Say Never Again a watchable retread .
bad teacher Diaz lets her wardrobe and bad attitude do the work for her , but she 's left high and dry at the end of the film when it abruptly tries to redeem Elizabeth 's bad behavior . A great supporting cast is n't enough since Diaz and Timberlake just are n't funny . [ VIDEO ] For the first time since her unforgettable appearance in the Farrelly Brothers ' 1998 gross out comedy `` There 's Something About Mary '' Cameron Diaz fulfills her comedic promise . Ultimately , Bad Teacher is easy to like precisely because it does n't try very hard to be liked . Simply serves Hollywood formula , while pretending to be above it . Broader than Bad Santa and less consistently funny , it 's still gleefully rude , crude and often a lot of fun . This is too easy , but I 'm going to do it anyway : Bad Teacher ? Bad movie . The only way to understand this movie 's argument about performance pay is to imagine Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker watching it . `` Bad Teacher '' keeps threatening to become entertaining without quite getting there , but it took me a while to realize how truly awful it is . Vainly strives for outrageousness via dry-humping , nude-pic blackmail scams , and desperate cracks about blacks , Jews , and `` Orientals . '' 	In spite of a promising concept and a charmingly brazen performance from Cameron Diaz , Bad Teacher is never as funny as it should be .
john carpenters ghosts of mars A lackluster retread of last year 's Pitch Black . The 'acting ' by lead stars Ice Cube , Natasha Henstridge , Jason Statham and Pam Grier is more wooden than a Pinocchio puppet show . Though Ghosts of Mars is watchable and even exciting , it 's not one of [ Carpenter 's ] best . There 's a difference between a simple plot and a stupid one . Carpenter 's is a no-brainer , but it 's executed with flair , talent , and few lapses in logic . Ghosts of Mars , hah . More like Turkey of Mars . Those going in hopes of the over-the-top fun of Carpenter 's last picture , Vampires , will leave sorely disappointed . It delivers to expectations , more or less , but it 's never amazing . Carpenter has brought his curatorial care to the nuances , and the movie achieves wipeout energy . One of the movie 's first images is a flashing 'Auto Pilot ' sign , and that 's how it seems to have been made . What 's almost charming about Carpenter 's new film is that he does n't seem concerned about providing auds with their weekly fix of new screen effects but instead prefers his space adventure on the funky side , even if that means the funk gets ridiculous . 	John Carpenter 's Ghosts of Mars is not one of Carpenter 's better movies , filled as it is with bad dialogue , bad acting , confusing flashbacks , and scenes that are more campy than scary .
rv If Robin Williams is seeking a return to comedy glory , RV is not the vehicle that will take him there . If the words `` Robin Williams family comedy '' strike terror into your heart , then you may be pleasantly surprised by RV , because for once he 's not playing a blubbering man-child . There are some sequences where you will love the characters and others where you ca n't stand them . Hmm , maybe RV is close to the real thing after all . None of the four leads are particularly interesting ... [ and Robin Williams ' ] performance is disheartening A disappointment for both Robin Williams and Men In Black director Barry Sonnenfeld , this vacation-from-hell plotline quickly grows tedious R.V . is n't just a bad movie ; it 's more than that , it 's symptomatic of a kind of bad movie that seems to be proliferating like cinematic cockroaches . Of course , it all winds up with absurdly contrived lessons about family bonding , including a climactic soliloquy by Williams that 's barely short of laughable . Exceedingly juvenile and strained of any colorful imagination not to mention hopelessly lame , RV is a colossally clunky vehicle in every sense of the word . By the end , the crudity is so excessive , it makes National Lampoon 's Vacation look as sophisticated as The Accidental Tourist by comparison . Robin Williams has n't been this funny in many moons . 	An unoriginal and only occasionally funny family road-trip movie , RV is a mediocre effort that not even the charisma of Robin Williams can save .
venus in fur Fun , sexy , playful , and edgy , it also features two wonderful performances from Emmanuelle Seigner and Mathieu Amalric . `` Venus in Fur '' finds Roman Polanski transferring a New York stage hit to the screen with maximum fidelity and facility , and a minimum of fuss . A grand seduction staged in an intimate space . A tale of destruction and creation bolstered by two intense and noteworthy performances . One thing that makes the dialogue-heavy movie so compelling ( and also something that Polanski does so well ) is an undercurrent of dread . Roman Polanski proves his dexterity once again with this dark , mystifying , and anything but simple two-character , single-location film . The shifting power dynamics -- between the characters and the roles they are playing -- are enthralling . A tasty light hors d'oeuvre rather than a full meal . It 's the concept that 's a bit chewed-over . Rarely do you see a film with just two characters , but Amalric and Seigner have so much control over themselves that they keep you entranced throughout the entire 96 minutes . 	Provocative , funny , and brilliantly acted , Venus in Fur finds Roman Polanski in top late-period form .
no end in sight This is the Iraq War documentary that covers all bases ... Just listen to the silence of those who refuted Fahrenheit 911 . The point of [ Ferguson 's ] film seems to be that even though the invasion was unnecessary and wrong , it still could have turned out much better than it has , and he tries to pinpoint key errors during the first weeks and months after March 2003 . A clear-eyed appraisal and condemnation of Bush administration war policies as seen through the eyes of people in a position to note the disastrous choices that left a country in chaos . Leaves you furious at an administration of armchair warriors , yet it offers the catharsis of cold , hard truth . Watching the film , which is well-organized but utterly artless , one wonders who , exactly , it 's trying to sway . Masterfully edited and cumulatively walloping . A persuasive argument that the inception of , and response to , the Iraq War perverted America 's ideals and intellect . Its moderate temperament hides obvious roars : Remembering outrage is all that will keep this from again occurring unopposed . ... a movie that will make you angry or sad . It provides no escape or transport from , but rather deeper engagement with , the regrettably real world . The most important film of the year thus far and , more significantly , the most comprehensive , clear-eyed account of the Iraq debacle and the arrogance behind it that we have . Charles Ferguson has designed No End in Sight to sink in . 	Charles Ferguson 's documentary provides a good summary of the decisions that led to the mess in post-war Iraq , and offers politically interested audiences something they 'd been looking for : a lowdown on the decision making .
1098149-patriot The Patriot is best when it focuses on Gibson . Unfortunately , half the time it focuses on Ledger . The American Revolution - in comic book form . Its makers and star have produced a hackneyed piece of patriotic gore . A gruesome hybrid , a mix of sentimentality and brutality that suggests a Lethal Weapon movie directed by Norman Rockwell . It 's the plot that 's hackneyed . It 's near sadistic how the film has him going though so much tragedy and self-questioning , but Gibson delivers emotionally . There 's no majesty , no tragedy , no feeling here ; it 's all FX and costuming and casting directors . The fireworks amount to little more than a fizzle . This is worth the price of admission , and even at almost three hours , your butt will not hurt . The film is undeniably handsome ... but no clich is left unturned . 	The Patriot can be entertaining to watch , but it relies too much on formula and melodrama .
scary movie 5 Spoofing movies ranging from Black Swan to Mama to Paranormal Activity , this installment of the profitable series is woefully , painfully unfunny . Railing against Scary Movie V for diminishing the series ' standards would be as effective as criticising Brooke Hogan for disgracing her proud family name . And yet , the fifth instalment of the Scary Movie franchise does do that . It 's supposed to be funny , but you 'd have an easier time reading a zombie 's pulse than you would finding a single good laugh ... Scary Movie 5 must be some kind of psychological experiment . Perhaps the filmmakers sat in a lab , rubbing their temples while wondering aloud how awful they could make a movie and still score at the box office . Even if you chuckle occasionally at this , it 's hard to see how anyone would want to pay to see it . The scariest thing about Scary Movie 5 is that it actually made me chortle less than some of the silly horror flicks it 's trying to spoof ! Spoofs always break the rule of half-mocking something stale , but I had no idea we needed a minimum amount of time needed before a reference . If I ever have to watch another Scary Movie film , I 'll give up on writing , cinema , and society forever . The inexcusably desperate `` Scary Movie 5 '' is this once-prosperous series ' death rattle . The writers are on auto pilot once more , relying on the `` It 's familiar , so it must be funny '' routine ... 	Juvenile even by Scary Movie standards , this fifth installment offers stale pop culture gags that generate few laughs .
10009225-body of lies Lies and consequences form the heart of this bold , hard-hitting drama in which people are used as commodities , while Big Brother keeps a watchful eye -- both DiCaprio and Crowe inhabit their characters totally Perfectly workmanlike , unimpeachably prestige-y , achingly contemporary , and a near-complete failure as revelation A bewildering mishmash of double-crosses , cover-ups , and cliches , Monahan 's treatment unfortunately undermines some terrific performances and a solid outing for director Ridley Scott . Body of Lies is certainly one of most well-crafted and intellectually engaging political thrillers to come along this year . A complicated movie about the war on terror with two terrific performances and a terrific director . For the most part , this is a pretty solid thriller that combines Government mumble jumble with some pretty exciting action sequences . Body of Lies is smart , sophisticated and hopelessly uninvolving . Director Ridley Scott delivers a passable spy movie that has nothing to say about this region ; he may as well have been directing from a monitor in his hotel suite . As disturbing as it is compelling , Ridley Scott has outdone himself with his first modern-day political thriller , delivering his strongest movie since Black Hawk Down . Good solid far-fetched multiplex action-adventure fare in the Bondian mode , with awe-inspiring technology and just enough moral philosophizing laced through it to give the mind a little something to chew on . 	Body of Lies relies on the performances of Russell Crowe and Leonardo DiCaprio to elevate it beyond the conventional espionage thriller .
because i said so The only time Keaton is tolerable is when she 's not saying anything at all , the result of laryngitis . BECAUSE I SAID SO is undone by its uneven screenplay Diane Keaton deserves so much better . A shallow rom-com that 's not just eager but frantic to please . Though it is far from perfect , I 'm giving it a pass ... once you get a little distance from the pandering , the movie kind of takes off . Because ends up a joyless , patronizing , and obnoxious 100-minute-long commercial for matricide . In lieu of plot , it 's cluttered with bad driving scenes , dog reaction shots , falling-splat-with-cakes scenes , and watching old movies scenes . Bette Davis and Joan Crawford , when they reached a certain age , played harridans and ax murderers . Diane Keaton has started playing mothers , but , alas , the effect is about the same : She 's scary . Very scary . With Keaton in devastating overdrive , Moore can barely exercise her own brand of ginchiness . The plot is about as revelatory as a bad Hallmark card , and the lowest common denominator humor results in a moviegoing experience that 's almost as appealing as having a conversation with my mother about orgasms . 	Overly reliant on caricatures and lacking any human insight , Because I Said So is an unfunny , cliche-ridden mess .
1174085-vitus Vitus packs an emotional wallop of the standing ovation variety during its final 20 minutes , even if the road there is long and windy . The more sentimentally inclined in the audience may even feel like applauding . [ An ] appealing and crowd-pleasing film . There are some likable elements to this unusual , erratic , ultimately frustrating film . Directed with a conspicuous lack of inspiration . [ Twelve-year-old lead actor ] Gheroghiu 's subtle acting ... makes the somewhat fantastical plot threads that drive the second half of the film believable , and turns what was a somewhat bloodless family drama into a cleverly constructed tale void of life-af If writer-director Fredi Murer had sparked a more rebellious spirit within the project , he might have made a truly memorable fantasy for both children and adults . Vitus freaks you out , but its makers seem to have no idea that it does . ... inconsequential fun that sells out the human story with an abrupt third-act turn from childhood rebellion to junior con game . Director/co-writer Fredi M. Murer provides some whimsically absurd twists in this gentle observation of the travails of growing up . 	Though not highly original , Vitus is slightly redeemed by its charm and compelling performances .
bloody sunday Powerful retelling of 1972 demonstrations . It 's an extraordinary adrenaline-pumping immersion into historical events , and goes along way to explain the bitterness that has resounded from that day . The chaos of that day comes through loud and clear . what remains is as clear an explanation as any of how a tinderbox sometimes erupts into conflagration with nothing so much as a strike . The handheld camerawork and bleached-out color palette suggest something more akin to combat footage , and candid moments recorded on the sly give Bloody Sunday a chilling realism . A heart pounding , moment-by-moment recreation of that awful January day . What Bloody Sunday lacks in clarity , it makes up for with a great , fiery passion . I admired this work a lot . As an act of filmmaking , it is superb : A sense of immediate and present reality permeates every scene . The film could have been one of the year 's finest , if only it was more accessible . 	Bloody Sunday powerfully recreates the events of that day with startling immediacy .
biker boyz People will complain about Biker Boyz , but I defy anyone to make a better movie about motorcycle racing clubs . Biker Boyz , in a word , stinkz . Biker Boyz is just a silly film . Halfway in comes a plot development so ludicrous it saps any feeling of charity toward Biker Boyz . Is n't really good enough to hold your attention but at least does n't abuse it too badly in the fleeting moments that it does . Watchable cheese . More entertaining than you might expect . The film is the product of juvenile filmmaking , from the ham-fisted acting to the boring staging of most of the action sequences . ... not worth getting revved up over . Biker Boyz had the potential to be a good movie -- if it had gone in one of two directions . 	Waste of a good cast . For a movie about bike racing , it never gets up to speed .
vanilla sky Crowe 's version lacks the qualities that made Abre Los Ojos unforgettable and does n't add enough of its own to ensure success . It 's perhaps ironic that a film about love , truth and reality would be so devoid of true emotion , especially considering the filmmaker behind the camera . [ Crowe 's ] 'bigger is better ' approach consistently misplaces the emphasis and waters down the movie 's appeal . A mature , intelligent thriller that bends the audience 's perceptions and expectations with every scene . The film , whether they like it or not , is about being beautiful and then losing it . Hollywood 's penultimate nightmare . V at a locadora e procure pela verso dirigida por Alejandro Amenbar . Voc gastar menos dinheiro e certamente ficar mais satisfeito . Every bit as strange and creepily effective as the original . An interesting failure ... in a perverse way , while Vanilla Sky certainly does n't stand up to Crowe 's still-fresh masterwork Almost Famous , it does confirm his directorial prowess . A jumble of spiritual and musical references that is either self-indulgent or daring , but a little creepy in both cases . What works in a quirky foreign film can look silly with expansive Hollywood treatment . 	An ambitious mix of genres , Vanilla Sky collapses into an incoherent jumble . Cruise 's performance lacks depth , and it 's hard to feel sympathy for his narcissistic character .
it happened one night As buoyant and elegant as bubbles in a glass of champagne , Frank Capra 's sublime 1934 comedy ... survives triumphantly because of its wit , charm , romantic idealism and its shrewd sketch of married life . Who can resist a movie where the girl 's father provides his daughter with a getaway car from her own wedding ? An old school classic . This charming romantic comedy , while grounded in the context of the Depression , offered light fare that 's uncharacteristic of Capra . It might have been the first true sleeper since no one involved anticipated such critical and commercial success . It Happened One Night was in many ways a predecessor to the modern romantic comedy , and its dynamics will still feel familiar to the current-day viewer . ... one of the smartest romantic comedies of the season . The Capra technique is evident in this story of a rich man 's daughter who rebels at her father 's objection to her marriage to an aviator . It 's nearly impossible to find anyone who does n't love it . Or does n't feel , in some way , that it speaks to them . The ultimate dizzy , romantic , screwball comedy . Instead of attempting a journalistic study of bus-travel , regularly punctuated by comic touches , Director Frank Capra and Robert Riskin who adapted Samuel Hopkins Adams ' story , fused the two . The grandparent of the screwball comedy sub-genre , and arguably Frank Capra 's best film . 	Capturing its stars and director at their finest , It Happened One Night remains unsurpassed by the countless romantic comedies it has inspired .
horrible bosses Squanders a promising dark premise and attractive production values for puerile gross-out humor , 'shocking ' sex talk , lazy plotting and a desperate and almost literal deus ex machina ending . `` Horrible Bosses '' is funny and dirty in about that order . Rides the entertaining pitch for the entire runtime -- without attempting to offer some kind of deeper insight or social commentary . This moronic screenwriting through swearing does little to generate laughs and only would appear to represent creative freedom or boundary pushing to a cast used to working under television censorship laws . With stellar comic timing from the entire ensemble and a dark streak of edgy humor with just enough wit to make it not seem cruel , this is one of the straight-up funniest movies of the year . to trio toy Gordon badizei se diadromes klasikoy buddy movie , arwmatismenes me mia tzoyra apo noyar doloplokies , gia na sthsei tis kwmikes eksarseis poy soy exoyn apokalypsei edw kai kati mhnes ta trailer I laughed frequently , probably to the detriment of my self-respect . Wonderfully mean-spirited , one sick joke piled atop another ... Farrell 's cheesy , coke-head boss is the real surprise . Foxx has a great time in a role that can be taken as a knowing goof on the street-smart hit man . Horrible movie . One of the five worst films of 2011 . A mess . 	It 's nasty , uneven , and far from original , but thanks to a smartly assembled cast that makes the most of a solid premise , Horrible Bosses works .
eyes without a face 1962 This classic is poetic , disturbing , appalling , as Emily Dickinson saucily spoke of the undertaker , the 'man of the appalling trade . ' Franju conjures images -- sometimes gory , sometimes poetic , sometimes fantastical -- that genuinely haunt : the essence of the cinema distilled . It infects your dreams with dread and desperation . A blood-curdling picture directed by Georges Franju at an even , distant pace that builds tension to an almost unbearable level . Sharp as a scalpel , soft as a caress , this is a weird masterwork . Awesome for its time , but a little awkward today , this straight-talking shocker deserves regard rather than reverence . Poetic , strange , but distanced Wedding lyrical beauty to a gruesome scenario , it bridges the chasm between arthouse poetry and exploitation voyeurism . Among the most disturbing horror films ever made . This marvelously bizarre film was a chilling mixture of art and schlock . 	A horrific tale of guilt and obsession , Eyes Without a Face is just as chilling and poetic today as it was in 1959 .
arbitrage Its best attribute is Gere 's performance . He has n't been this good in ages . The stakes of Arbitrage never feel quite high enough , no matter how good it all looks . For the first two acts , Jarecki paces out the story 's various twists and turns quite well . Arbitrage is the kind of classily put-together film that actors , filmmakers and grown-up audiences frequently complain no longer gets made . Inadvertently pandering on just about every level , except for the end credits , which are quite likely intended to rapidly vacate the theater for the next screening . Not worth a trip to the theater , but it might be worth catching on TV some day you 've got nothing better to do . His moral guidelines are just as complicated and self contradictory as our own An ethically revealing film about a New York billionaire who 's a member of the winning-class . What elegant pulp this is , and how inelegantly I gobbled it up . Arbitrage is the story of one rich man 's downward spiral where both sides lie to try to get what they want but both walk away empty handed . It all results in a standstill that is about as thrilling as a staring contest . 	Arbitrage is both a tense thriller and a penetrating character study , elevated by the strength of a typically assured performance from Richard Gere .
tucker and dale vs evil At its heart , it 's really just a one-idea premise stretched out to feature length , but the lovable duo of Tudyk and Labine and an endearing layer of sweetness under all the blood make it a fully enjoyable comedy of ( t ) errors . While it 's not quite a home run , there 's a lot to enjoy about Tucker & Dale vs . Evil . It 's got its heart in the right place , and hey , it 's just nice to root for the hillbillies for once in this scenario ! Tucker and Dale vs Evil , much like the titular characters , is daft and does n't much care for subtlety , but smart horror fans will laugh their way through this well-acted , subversive horror-comedy . This is one of those rare genre comedies that near-perfectly balances its blend of grue , guffaws , and gag reflexes . A terrific , no-budget picture teeming with guffaws , but it could 've gone a lot further . I sincerely hope there are more Tucker and Dale adventures to come . Horror needs their blissful Southern-fried bewilderment . Without a doubt the funniest movie of the year . By the time the action-packed , thoroughly tedious climax rolls around , Tucker and Dale Vs . Evil has established itself as a missed opportunity of disappointingly epic proportions ... As with most single-joke movies the plot runs out of steam , but it 's still a fun and memorable ride . It 's an easy crowd pleaser with its humor , heart and guts . If you 're seeing this as the midnight movie it 's destined to best be experienced as , you could safely drift off after the 45-minute mark ... 	Like the best horror/comedies , Tucker & Dale vs . Evil mines its central crazy joke for some incredible scares , laughs , and -- believe it or not -- heart .
1158404-nathalie A woman ( Fanny Ardant ) hires a prostitute ( Emmanuelle Bart ) to seduce her unfaithful husband ( Grard Depardieu ) in Anne Fontaine 's seductive and intriguing film . French sexual politics may not resonate with American sensibilities Underwhelming ending and all , Nathalie ... remains a powerful exploration of jealousy and desire . The performances are better than the material deserves , but , even so , there 's often no tangible friction between the female leads . The film 's considerable eroticism is all in the atmosphere and the dialogue . Exceptional performances and the oh-so-Frenchness of the complications produce an erotic tale that plays like the best gossipy story you ever heard about people you thought you knew . Worth a look , especially if you appreciate the very particular and sometimes peculiar charms of contemporary French cinema . ... the conceit works beautifully with the right personalities , talented and uninhibited , engaged in its execution . As a rather naughty slice of erotica it works brilliantly , with Ardant and Bart making a fascinating partnership . Between the leonine Ardant , the streets of Paris , and the nearly hypnotic score by Michael Nyman , the sophisticated Nathalie oozes with elegance . 	A seductive French import that portrays adult issues of jealousy and betrayal with strong lead performances and considerable French charm .
uptown girls Haphazardly slapped together without an original bone in its anorexic frame . For a comedy , it 's surprisingly laugh-free and for an oh-so-message-laden tale of spoiled-gal redemption , it 's irritatingly sincerity-free . It 'll take more than a spoonful of sugar to make this medicine go down . Brittany Murphy and Dakota Fanning make for a winning combination , and their characters ' sometimes dark journeys do not always take the most obvious route to the inevitable happy ending . It is a confusing experience-a film unsure of what it wants to be Though Murphy is radiant , and her laughs are infectious , her free-spiritedness is thrust in our face like a pointy object in a 3-D movie . An embarrassingly silly exercise that mostly serves as a platform for Brittany Murphy to model a fab wardrobe and glam hairstyles . It 's possible that Uptown Girls will supplant Gigli as the summer 's biggest joke . You 're going to forget this one as soon as you finish watching . And if you do n't , it will probably be because you want to complain about how uninspired and unoriginal it is . In the end , it 's 'Moo ' the pig , that comes off looking the best here . 	With two obnoxious lead characters and an uneven screenplay , Uptown Girls fails to charm .
miracle A marvelous film -- enthralling , ecstatic and an illustration of everything Seabiscuit did wrong . A television movie projected onto a big screen . A rousing good story of an underdog that galvanized a nation . Miracle successfully aims to rouse a partisan crowd . On the simplest level , it 's a true underdog story , told in an exciting way when it counts the most . The movie effectively simulates the game 's whirl , and should grab all but the most finicky hockey fans . But for moviegoers who think if you 've seen one sports flick , you 've seen 'em all -- well , you 've definitely seen this one . Never before has a sports movie taken so little care to ensure the audience understands the sport in question . That might sound like a negative , but it improves the film enormously for those who understand and love the game . This is material tailor-made for audiences whose concept of intersocietal conflict is dictated by the Franklin Mint . Esquemtico em toda a narrativa , apenas mais um exemplo inferior do gnero `` azaro-com-esprito-de-vencedor '' . Although it struggles to reproduce the emotion of the moment , it emphatically reminds us that on one fateful Friday night , the impossible was possible . 	Kurt Russell 's performance guides this cliche-ridden tale into the realm of inspirational , nostalgic goodness .
1082899-hush The screenplay , by director Jonathan Darby and Jane Rusconi , might have prompted Lange to fly way over the top . Thankfully , she reins in her performance sufficiently to save the melodrama from becoming just another Whatever Happended To Baby Jane ? lampoon . The only way that a story this insipid could be any good would be if it was a very campy black comedy . How awful can a movie be ? This awful . It is to scary movies what Sesame Street 's 'the Count ' is to vampires . Lange seems at a loss to know how to convey Martha 's malevolence -- and writer-director Jonathan Darby offers almost no guidance . The old formulas are around for a reason , but that does n't mean they taste fresh . This film is so bad , even good actors ca n't save it . The screenplay borders on the hilarious , at times , with a couple eliciting guffaws . A lot of talent wasted in a forgettable potboiler Hush has three very simple problems : it 's incredibly dumb , it 's incredibly boring , and it 's incredibly predictable ( at least up to the stupefying ending ) . 	A ridiculous but wholly predictable potboiler with performances ranging from comatose to hysterical .
afghan star And while its style and structure conform to the well-worn template established by docs like 'Spellbound ' , its success lies in creating an accessible , fun way into serious issues . Afghan Star sets out with a delectably postmodern agenda . The filmmaking itself is pretty much by the numbers ... But there 's some genuine tension as the competition field narrows . An extraordinary documentary about an American Idol-like TV show that manages to capture the volatile mix of history , religion , and pop culture in contemporary war-torn Afghanistan . A pleasantly uplifting film , one built upon hope and the strength of the human spirit . In its vivid , suspenseful depiction of a high-stakes competition for prize money and the honor of being named Afghanistan 's top singer , Afghan Star goes much deeper . Afghan Star is as entertaining as any talent competition but also has a strong socio-political story , providing a revealing look at Afghanistan as its rebuilds after years of war , Taliban rule and struggles with democracy . Entertaining and pointed , reveals the cultural , political , and social power of an old-fashioned televised talent show in a country where voting is a newfangled notion . ... more than a popular phenomenon , this documentary shows how a simple , completely apolitical piece of entertainment crosses ethnic , regional and cultural borders ... Marking follows four contestants for the three months leading up to `` Afghan Star 's '' finale and , while there are some amusing parallels to `` American Idol , '' it is also clear Glambert would risk stoning had he been performing in Afghanistan . 	An enlightening and sobering documentary on Afghanistan 's very own X-Factor .
10008820-visitor The charms and wonders of the film lie in the performances of the leads , all of whom are better than perfect -- they feel real . If McCarthy is the divinity of the universe he creates , its patron saint is Frank Capra ... The primordial truth about Capra 's and McCarthy 's characters is that if you scratch beneath the surface , just about everyone is decent . Far too much of a mixed bag to be completely effective , but allows for some fun and unexpected moments and solid performances . The not-so subliminal message about life being fair versus breaking the law is n't enough to carry a film purporting to be a character-driven drama . It is a lovely , well-crafted , bittersweet little film . Our patience with the characters ' apathy and uninteresting demeanor is not rewarded enough . Actor-turned-filmmaker Tom McCarthy demonstrates that the critical acclaim for The Station Agent in 2003 was no fluke . Much more interested in its interpersonal relationships than it is in climbing a soapbox and preaching to the choir . Sophisticated , timely and compelling , it 's a quintessential post-9/11 drama . The astonishing sensitivity with which Richard Jenkins approaches his role is nicely complimented by the performances of other cast members . 	The Visitor is a heartfelt , humanistic drama that deftly explores identity , immigration , and other major post-9/11 issues .
the pool A miraculous , American-made Hindi film that is every bit as tranquil as the blue-green reservoir that serves as its abiding metaphor . It does n't sound like much , but in the hands of director Chris Smith , this setup makes for a good small-scale observational picture about young people finding that the world is a larger place than they imagined . It 's a movie about a time , a place and a situation that is n't going to change soon . [ Director ] Smith takes his time to establish the people , the landscape and the striking contrast between the lives of the very rich and the very poor . Documentary filmmaker Chris Smith 's feature debut is startling , original and quietly winning . Reality and fiction fuse like watercolors in this quietly compelling narrative feature . A fascinating narrative set in modern-day Indian and full of insights into a class-riven country . [ A ] wholly unobjectionable , likeably performed but faintly soporific drama ... A quiet , quirky , well-observed fiction about aspiration and connection . The Pool conveys a sense of having been made , not found , but Smith avoids mawkishness and has an ear for how young people speak and relate to one another . Though plot-wise nothing much happens , Smith elicits strong sense of place and teases out the film 's themes ... 	Beautifully crafted with loosely drawn characters and a lilting , natural pace , Chris Smith 's The Pool features a universal message to which everyone can relate .
quills Quills valiantly argues that bold ideas can not - and should not - be stopped . A deep blue sea of great acting , directing , and writing . It is quite illuminating , for those of you who are not afraid to take the plunge into its murky waters . Gleaming , erotic and unsettling . Stirring on a lusty , primal level that touches that baser human nature de Sade probed in his work . Sincero homenaje al impulso creativo que todo ser humano tiene dentro de s y un recordatorio de que el rgano sexual ms poderoso es la imaginacin All the major performances in Quills are Oscar-worthy . Quills , about the marquis de Sade , is a voluptuous impasto . Everything in it -- the colors , the locations , the people -- seems swirled with a mixture of decadence and grace . Kaufman here reminds us why he was once one of the most high profile directors The most entertaining and appallingly funny anti-censorship movie since Milos Foreman 's The People Vs. Larry Flynt . I 'm inclined to agree with my colleague Michael Musto , who suggested that the reason various characters have their tongues ripped out is to prevent the actors from chewing away the scenery . 	Though hard to watch , this film 's disturbing exploration of freedom of expression is both seductive and thought-provoking .
diary of a mad black woman Well-intentioned , but terribly stereotypical , falling back on the insulting ghetto speak and flabby caricatures that used to populate In Living Color skits . Three separate movies collide in this uneven but heartfelt drama . A mess . Diary is a crock , all right , but a crock made with conviction . Diary of A Mad Black Woman has no idea what kind of film it wanted to be , and fails at every genre it tries to tackle . So many disparate pieces can not be forced into cohesion . I 'm at a loss to explain anything about this film . I 'm not sure if it 's surprising that the film is almost uniformly awful . ... a passion play with a guy in drag ( who could ask for anything more ? ) ... I 'm not sure if Diary of a Mad Black Woman is heartfelt or cynical , but if anyone can write a movie that 's both , it 's probably Tyler Perry . 	Tyler Perry 's successful play ca n't make the move to the screen ; this mix of slapstick , melodrama and spirituality lacks a consistent tone .
block party Block Party captures a communal gathering with an honesty that makes what could be a dull lack of dramatics into something spectacular . The theme of racial self-empowerment runs throughout Dave Chappelle 's Block Party . I do n't think the comedian just wanted to organize a concert . I think he wanted to encourage positivity . In a year that has already suffered from the embarrassing shuckin ' and jivin ' of Martin Lawrence and Tyler Perry , it 's exhilarating to see a film that celebrates black culture without turning it into a minstrel show . Block Party makes for a transcendent experience . It 's a jubilant , civic-minded lollapalooza . Chappelle frequently fades to the sideline as the musical groups take over , offering a blisteringly memorable snapshot of hip hop 's state of the art in 2004 . His [ Chappelle ] return to the public eye does n't result in much musical magic or comedic fun . a winningly entertaining labor of love that also happens to be A work by everyone involved What should be a breezy , hand-waving romp turns out to be a misshapen , lazy flop . One moment it soothes the heart with sweet music , and the next it fries your ears with feedback . A good time should be had by all . 	Dave Chappelle 's Block Party is a raucous return to the spotlight for the comic . Buoyed by Chappelle 's witty , infectious humor and outstanding performances from some of the more socially conscious artists in hip-hop like Mos Def , Kayne West , the Roots , and ( will wonders never cease ? ) the reunited Fugees , this documentary/concert film is a joyous experience . With an appealing mix like that , who does n't want to attend this Party ?
song of sparrows Majid Majidi 's lyrical , gently comic The Song of Sparrows grounds its low-key humor in the realities of poor , semi-rural Iranian life . The lessons are unsubtle and the pace drags near the end , but Naji is wonderfully expressive , the production design is top-notch and the Iranian countryside is gorgeous . Moving and entertaining in a modest way ... it 's nice to have a reminder that America does n't have a monopoly on sweetly uplifting movies about life lessons . [ A ] lovely , metaphoric tale about not letting the things you own , own you . The goldfish flopping in the sun is an image typical of Majid Majidi 's films , fable-like and seemingly simple even as it is also complex . As unabashedly sentimental as The Song of Sparrows often becomes , this simple fable of a righteous man 's relationship to his family , his community and most of all his faith has the force of conviction . a greatly satisfying parable of happenstance People of faith will see divinity in The Song of Sparrows , and the rest of us the presence of something greater than ourselves , a perfection that can only be understood in observation of another person 's life . The film is pleasingly meandering , till the more typically Majidian soulful and teary-eyed climax . takes place a half a world away in a land of ostrich farms and refrigerators delivered ... on the back of a motorbike , but Karim 's foibles , his worries and joys , will be recognizable to anyone ... 	A heartfelt , affecting parable , The Song of Sparrows is another gem from Iranian director Majid Majidi .
8-12 A sprawling anything-goes portrait of the artist and the creative process in crisis . A carnival of the soul . 8 1/2 is probably the most potent movie about film-making , within which fantasy and reality are mixed without obfuscation , and there 's a tough argument that belies Fellini 's usual felicitous flaccidity . It 's Fellini 's last black-and-white picture and conceivably the most gorgeous and inventive thing he ever did . It exerts an irresistible pull . A seminal work of cinema . At least half-kidding most of the time , it 's a playful nervous breakdown , alight with ideas and joy . This is a complex and painfully honest study of a man in a personal and professional crisis . a wonderfully self-indulgent meditation on creative blocks and personal crises [ Fellini ] is that rare sort of artist who can be loved , revered and just barely tolerated , all at the same time . 	Inventive , thought-provoking , and funny , 8 1/2 represents the arguable peak of Federico Fellini 's many towering feats of cinema .
country strong This country music drama boasts solid performances and a few catchy songs , but its ending might have you singing the blues . An insight-free showcase for haphazard clichs , with a title that sounds like deodorant for cowboys . The story 's shifting perspectives and sympathies ( the distinctions between the 'authentic ' singer-songwriter and the 'pop ' vocalist prove ambiguous ) result in a music-centric work that feels more honest ( while being less entertaining ) than 'Crazy Heart . ' Writer/director Shana Feste is clearly indebted to the Oscar-winning Crazy Heart and Robert Altman 's epic Nashville , but the script all too often stumbles into mediocre soap-opera territory . If McGraw had been armed with a microphone , perhaps the movie could have gained something in symmetry ; if Kelly had a grounding in social history , perhaps she could better be believed . Paltrow gives it her best but is so conspicuously doing country . We 're meant to believe she has spent half her life staring into a vodka bottle , but she glows like she 's just stepped out of a yoga retreat . [ A ] mixed bag of a country music comeback fable . Much like the deservedly-maligned `` Burlesque '' with Cher and Christina Aguilera , `` Country Strong '' is merely a trite story that gives Paltrow and her co-stars a chance to show off their vocals . That rare ensemble piece in which all four principals are not only compellingly drawn but handled with an astute sense of dramatic balance . A decade after Duets , a singing Gwyn proves she can still reach the high notes . Shame the melodrama plays strained and unoriginal . 	The cast gives it their all , and Paltrow handles her songs with aplomb , but Country Strong 's cliched , disjointed screenplay hits too many bum notes .
sophie scholl die letzten tage [ Jentsch ] creates a deeply human portrait of a courageous young woman at a moment when that kind of courage seemed in terribly short supply . Interesting story , but the movie does nothing to stand out from the crowd There 's a resonance to Sophie Scholl that crosses borders and approaches the timeless . Sophie Scholl is a powerful story . A disturbing film about courage , idealism , youth and the grim mechanics of mankind gone mad . A very tense study of the last days of Nazism , and a worthy homage to a true heroine ... Plays like one of the better `` Law and Order '' episodes . Through it all , Jentsch is a beacon of bravery and resolve in the darkness of a totalitarian machine . If any actor in an English-language film has given a better performance in the past year , I 'd like to see it . German actress Julia Jentsch is phenomenal in the lead role , bringing a vulnerability to a character perhaps a bit too perfect on the page . As befits a film about a woman who took much of her strength from religious conviction , Jentsch 's performance seems to be lit from within . 	A film that begs the audience to reflect upon their own courage and strength of character in light of this young heroine 's daring story .
1197228-earth When a subject is as big as all outdoors , the big screen has some advantages . A gorgeously photographed storybook . It just feels like cheating . This is the exact footage used in the `` Planet Earth '' series . I even miss the full Disney treatment . No cute names given to the animals ? How will you sell more stuffed animals ? It really is impressive to see these images so up close on a big screen . Jones ' narration is both warm and authoritative . If Mufasa ca n't make kids care about the Earth , it might be a lost cause . Has lots of stunning visuals and wonders of nature to behold , but ultimately lacks insight and never really achieves the exhilarating heights and palpable poignancy of March of the Penguins . Parental Content Review Dazzling wildlife docu has a few intense moments . Reminds us that no matter where you are , this third rock from the sun of ours is a gorgeous thing . A well-made doc that will prompt the viewer to think , 'Is a vulnerable animal better off safe in a zoo or with risks in the jungle ? ' 	With its spectacular and extensive footage , Earth is both informative and entertaining .
1212694-blind side Blond , brisk and all business , [ Bullock is ] easily the best thing about the film , which otherwise slumps into a cloying , condescending morass that does n't do her fine work any favors . The movie glosses over the deeper issues of the tale , ones dealing with race , poverty , privilege and ethics , opting for the feel-good quick hit that makes the overall experience unsatisfying . The movie is very familiar -- you 've seen it all before -- but it succeeds at achieving its modest goals . Director John Lee Hancock defuses class resentment by making sure that everybody in the family is as adorable as possible ... Judging by the awful trailers , I did not think in a million years I would see a wonderful true story that perfectly balanced comedy and drama . Bullock was fantastic . It 's hard to overlook that while Michael 's benefactors are white , the villains in the movie are black . Oher ( TM ) s life is meant to make us feel good , and it mostly does . But how good we feel about his story is proportional to how blind we ( TM ) re willing to be about how it ( TM ) s told . takes what could have been a clich three-hanky tearjerker designed to assuage white guilt and turn it into something deeper and more meaningful If you 're looking for an uplifting sports story , this one , familiar as it is , manages a winning score . Lewis ' earlier and even better sports book , Moneyball , also is in a turbulent journey toward the big screen , but after this film , he may hope it never gets there . 	It might strike some viewers as a little too pat , but The Blind Side has the benefit of strong source material and a strong performance from Sandra Bullock .
how to survive a plague Plague offers an instructive lesson for Occupy-era rabble-rousers : Only when coupled with a knowledge base will your sound and fury signify anything . At once a fascinating history and a compelling call to action . A cinematically sophisticated documentary that actually finds a way to be an intelligent and admirable work of art in addition to its more overt sociological implications . A compellingly watchable portrait of a battle fought under that most memorable rallying cry : `` Silence = Death '' . Bravo . A major addition to the body of work chronicling the AIDS epidemic , this is a passionate account of the hard-won breakthrough in making HIV a manageable condition . Mostly the film toggles between two emotions - the high of watching brave people go to war , and the low of seeing so many of them fall , as entire communities are destroyed . It ca n't be long before we see the Hollywood version . France and his crew have sculpted years of old broadcast-news stories and home videos into a narrative that is impressionistic in its scope but coherent in its feeling . Filmmaker David France ... methodically reconstructs the critical period in the fight against AIDS from 1987 to 1995 . ( It ) emerges as the better documentary ( than this year 's `` United in Anger '' ) if only due to its slightly more comprehensive perspective . Plague is n't the history of a disease so much as the history of a movement , and a portrait of those who refused to suffer passively . 	Angry , powerful , and stirring , How to Survive a Plague is a brilliantly constructed documentary about the activists who pushed for action to combat the AIDS epidemic .
scratch 2002 Edited and shot with a syncopated style mimicking the work of his subjects , Pray turns the idea of the documentary on its head , making it rousing , invigorating fun lacking any MTV puffery . Should appeal to more than just hardcore hip-hop fans . One of those terrific documentaries that collect a bunch of people who are enthusiastic about something and then figures out how to make us share their enthusiasm . Illuminating if overly talky documentary . Does what a fine documentary does best : It extends a warm invitation into an unfamiliar world , then illuminates it fully and allows the larger implications of the journey to sink in unobtrusively . Triumphs by profiling a vibrant , underground culture that is as innovative as it is misunderstood . Time with this diverse group of record-spinners makes you appreciate them as the groundbreaking musicians they are . A nifty portrait of a minor , but intriguing , element of popular culture . Engaging documentary . Pray has managed to create a historical document accessible enough for novices and credible enough for aficionados . 	Whether you know anything about turntablism or not , Scratch makes for fun and informative viewing .
nightmare on elm street 2010 For all his calculated bumps in the night and shots of creepy-looking preschoolers moping around a boiler room , Bayer misses the little things that made the original so hard to forget . Craven was right to keep his distance from this one . Lo % u0161e odra % u0111ena indigo-kopija originala , od strane ne ba % u0161 iskusnog videospota % u0161a Samuela Bayera Freddy Kruger deserves better and so do we . Like many horror fans , I approached viewing the recent remake of the post-slasher classic with extremely low expectations . Not low enough , though ! Drab leads and a lack of any sort of fevered investigative pop make this Nightmare come across like a boring , gory junior detective procedural . On film or DVD , Freddy is terrifying for about 15 minutes % u2014 one reel tops . After the first couple of appearances and a kill or two , he is ho-hum . The bottom line is that it is n't just Elm Street that 's affected ; you 'll find a nightmare on any street that 's housing a theater with the misfortune to be playing this monstrosity . Many people have already made the mistake of holding this film up to the original , expecting it to be just as good , but it just is n't . However , taken on its own , it 's still an entertaining horror film and an interesting take on the material . All we can think of is how much we miss the Robert Englund Freddy . Man , that guy knew how to have a killer good time . It 's all efficiently done and gory but director Samuel Bayer adds so little to the old familiar scare story that you wonder why they did n't just save a bob or two and reissue the Robert Englund original . 	Visually faithful but lacking the depth and subversive twists that made the original so memorable , the Nightmare on Elm Street remake lives up to its title in the worst possible way .
kung fu hustle Chow packs a lot of action , a crazed cascade of comedy , a parade of characters and a non-stop barrage of loving jabs at classic martial-arts adventures into 99 minutes . If you 're not entertained , it 's time to get off the decaf . There 's nothing in Kung Fu Hustle you have n't seen before , but you 've never seen it put together in quite this way . Ridiculous ? Nah . Kung Fu Hustle is sublime entertainment . With a delirious mix of the sublime and the silly , Hong Kong comedy king Stephen Chow Sing-chi has taken the kung fu comedy genre to new heights of chop-socky hilarity . A slaphappy cartoon in any language ... Thaaaat 's all , folks . The humor may be lowbrow , but the Looney Tunes timing is impeccable . The laws of physics no longer apply , if they ever did ; characters leap , run at neck-breaking speed , bash each other through several walls with one blow . At times , Kung Fu Hustle feels like too much of a good thing . Thumbing its nose at gravity , deflating Zen solemnity , embracing big-top artifice with childish glee , Kung Fu Hustle zings you with some of the most unfettered slapstick ever put on film . 	Kung Fu Hustle blends special effects , martial arts , and the Looney Toons to hilarious effect .
akeelah and the bee Akeelah is n't quite in the class of the movies that inspired it . But it captures the spirit of what made Spellbound so likeable ... It is because Palmer 's performance is so real and centred that we become so involved in Akeelah 's quest . As much a fantasy as Lord of the Rings . One could quibble about the need for another spelling bee film , but at least this one has some fine performances and a worthwhile message to recommend it . It had the potential ... to be great had it avoided running lockstep with the structure of lesser films . Maybe it 's complete hokum ... but it 's ... perfectly executed , and it would take a harder heart than mine not be utterly engaged and moved by the result . Where Spellbound generated crackling suspense in its competition climax , Akeelah is virtually suspense-free , even with an attempt to wring a twist on its pre-determined outcome . It 's hard to believe the best family film so far this year comes from a writer-director whose previous film bears the unfortunate title The Pornographer . Akeelah and the Bee carefully diagrams every cliche we 've absorbed from sports movies , urban dramas , mentor flicks and precocious-children portraits . Yet it works . An 11-year-old word wizard from the inner city longs for a little r-e-s-p-e-c-t , as Aretha Franklin sings in pop music 's most famous spelling test . We know she 'll get it ; what 's remarkable is that writer-director Doug Atchison earns our respect as well . 	Although predictable in every way , a winning performance from its young star Keke Palmer and the rest of the cast makes it difficult not to cheer for the little heroine of Akeelah and the Bee . Sort of like Rocky for the middle school nerd set , Akeelah is a warm , family-friendly underdog story , featuring terrific supporting performances from Laurence Fishburne and Angela Bassett .
barton fink Goes off the deep end . Fascinating in a creepy way . [ The Coens ' ] most entertaining movie because it 's explicitly about old Hollywood , their one true passion . The film 's period decor , mood lighting and artful camerawork are beautiful , at times thrilling , to look at . The Coens have never been more literate , more creative , or more ... well ... weird ! ( But weird in a very good way . ) A parable about the intellectual vanity of a creative individual who wants to improve society with his vision of the common man . Another quality film from the Coens . Goodman 's best performance . Aside from Turturro and Goodman , this movie is chockful of good performances . Partly hilarious , partly horrific , totally mesmerizing . The Coen brothers are among the most eclectic filmmakers around . 	Twisty and unsettling , the Coen brothers ' satirical tale of a 1940s playwright struggling with writer 's block is packed with their trademark sense of humor and terrific performances from its cast .
roman polanski wanted and desired The film walks a fine line between contempt for Polanski 's crimes and sympathy for his trials and his screwed-up psyche , and it manages both ... The film leans a bit too heavily on the idea that Polanski was a high-living artist who was rejected by a puritanical America and embraced by an understanding Europe , but on balance , the film is a credible re-evaluation of a complex man . None of the interviewees in Marina Zenovich 's fascinating documentary manages to make sense of the famous filmmaker 's behavior or apparent thinking . But they all have compelling impressions . She has achieved extraordinary access to the other still-living players in the case , and they all seem to be in agreement : Polanski is correct in saying the judge played with him as a cat might play with a mouse . What 's most interesting is the correlations drawn between the diminutive director and the infamous judge who presided over the case like an auteur of the courtroom An exhaustive and riveting narrative If you 're not a diehard fan of Polanski I ca n't see the pic holding your attention , as it lacks intrigue . Though Marina Zenovich 's film deals with the notorious case of the film director who pleaded guilty to having sex with a 13-year-old , the film 's real subject is the California legal system turned upside down by celebrity and media pressure . Some might confuse Zenovich 's indictment on the judge as a cop-out in judging Polanski . But the facts remain . There 's no further insight into the heinous crime . Nor is there a new judgment to be passed on the man who committed it . Anyone looking for new r This is more about the culture of celebrity , the sensationalism , a power hungry , media-hungry judge , and all the things that have happened since then . And as such , it 's a very good documentary . 	A courtroom drama and an exploration of celebrity and responsibility .
the-heart-of-the-game You 'll be smiling and happy as you leave the The Heart of the Game , with a newfound respect for girls ' basketball and those who play it . 'There is nothing more fun than watching you guys play basketball , ' says Resler , at one point , and the great strength of The Heart of the Game is that you ca n't help but agree . [ An ] inspirational tale , which values team spirit even as it celebrates the will of two talented individuals . The upbeat film touches on serious issues without becoming lugubrious . Genuinely touching and unquestionably sincere , the movie certainly has heart -- but it could have used a little more game . Might best be thought of as a female version Hoop Dreams . Yet another inspirational documentary that serves up the sort of dynamic characters and genuine intrigue that most of its fictional counterparts would kill for . The film is a furious full-court press , its subjects aflame with the kind of passion only youth can furnish . Even their bruises are luminous . This is one of the best docs of this sort I 've seen since `` Murderball , '' The too-brisk pacing precludes any intimacy with the characters , or any depth of narrative . Heart of the Game asks very little of its audience . And it delivers in kind . 	This group of high school girls and their eccentric basketball coach easily win your heart with their unusual humanity and dynamism .
macGruber MacGruber ! Did they really make a movie out of that one-joke `` SNL '' character ? MacGruber ! Can a 90-second sketch become a funny feature film ? MacGruber ! Well , it 's no Wayne 's World but at least it 's not It 's Pat . MacGruber ! ... very funny , though not for the prim or prudish ... Perhaps a satire of Nicolas Cage 's Jerry Bruckheimer movies . Forte plays it commendably straight as a malfunctioning Chuck Norris while the cliches of the genre - obsession with manhood , a gurning megalomaniac and maverick methods - are soundly nailed . It certainly has some laughs . And of course it has explosions . MacGruber might be a wildly uneven ride , but it does n't outstay its welcome and lined up against other Saturday Night Live productions it 's hardly the worst of the bunch . ... everything here that does n't feel ripped off from other spoofs plays like a middle school playground reenactment . A film that poses a philosophical question fundamental to our inquiry here , namely : `` Why does this exist ? '' Surprisingly , lots better than extended fart jokes Unexpectedly , this feature-length cash-in on a mildly popular American comedy sketch is more fun than most of this year 's bum-awful blockbuster crop put together . 	It too often mistakes shock value for real humor , but MacGruber is better than many SNL films -- and better than it probably should be .
twilight saga breaking dawn An eventful but bloodless first half of the smash series ' finale . Condon pulls it off about as well as anybody could . Sappy melodramatics are constantly on full display , the performances are distractingly exaggerated and the dialogue is so ridiculously cheesy it could force Kraft to file for bankruptcy ... yet , for some odd reason , I was kind of entertained . Sexy honeymoon , disturbing pregnancy dominate latest movie . The bloated franchise 's worst film without question , the fourth `` Twilight '' popcorn flick is a futile exercise on the disappointment of anti-climactic waiting . It does n't sparkle or shine . It flickers , and then disappointingly dies . These movies have become one big joke , with hokey acting , slapdash visuals and Kindergarten dialogue . It felt like such a parody that it might as well have been directed by those jerks who made DISASTER MOVIE and EPIC MOVIE . Bella a candidata ideal a uma arrasadora depresso ps-parto . Mas com um marido sexualmente ambguo e um melhor amigo pedfilo , quem no seria ? Almost sort of liked it . Critiques really have no weight when it comes to films like this . The haters are gon na hate , the fans are gon na love , and everyone else will check the movie listings and their own wallets before deciding if this is the best option for a night on the town . By any normal standard , this is a terrible movie , with stilted dialogue and leaden pacing -- every 15 minutes or so , the action stops for a musical montage involving slow-motion handsomeness . But the Twilight saga stopped being normal a long time ago . 	Slow , joyless , and loaded with unintentionally humorous moments , Breaking Dawn Part 1 may satisfy the Twilight faithful , but it 's strictly for fans of the franchise .
1208882-cove No Hollywood film , fiction or non- , can ever prepare you for the reality of what goes on in that cove . Please do n't show this film to young children . Devastating and excellent . Skillful , unsparing and blessed with a great protagonist , The Cove is smart enough to stir up as much interest in its cause as Who Killed the Electric Car ? did with the shuttered EV1 , provided its post-festival word of mouth continues to build . This documentary is the most exciting espionage thriller of the year . A powerful , important and extremely well made documentary that demands to be seen . Beyond the high-stakes game of cat and mouse , the film explores the mysterious relationship between humans and dolphins and the unexplainable connection between our two species . There are certain films that you 'll never be able to erase from your memory , and without a shadow of a doubt The Cove is definitely one of them . There is nothing simplistic about this story , nor the range of emotions we experience as our journey skids from fascination to devastation . It 's both an educational work of art and a classic espionage tale . A documentary that mixes advocacy journalism with the suspenseful thrill of a caper . Unapologetically subjective , and a piece of social activist cinema all the way , but also thrilling and truly heartbreaking , The Cove is pieced together like a Steven Soderbergh heist flick , not some staid non-fiction film . 	Though decidedly one-sided , The Cove is an impeccably crafted , suspenseful expose of the covert slaughter of dolphins in Japan .
varsity blues The football scenes are involving , the acting is up to snuff , and there is something about those last days of high school that remains a solid background for even the most familiar of stories . Although the film takes a worthwhile detour or two , it ultimately finds its way back to the well-worn track of its genre . The football action is rough , intricate and involving . The action scenes and performances by Voight and Van Der Beek make this a game effort . Although there are signs of more intelligence lurking about , they 're so obscured by the inane sophomoric material that few will recognize they even exist . Slickly enjoyable ! ... someone could make a very interesting , nuanced film about the exalted place that high school football holds in some parts of Texas ... this is n't that film . Formulaic , predictable , yet guiltily satisfying . a better picture than you might expect , given that it was produced by MTV Pictures ( who created last year 's debacle 'Dead Man On Campus ' ) and directed by Brian Robbins , the man who previously brought 'Good Burger ' to the screen . Excellent casting ! 	This is a predictable football movie that lacks intensity .
i served the king of england I Served the King of England plays like a combination of Life Is Beautiful and Forrest Gump . There is hardly a moment in this new film in which you are not aware that its absurdist view of the human condition was shaped by traumatic 20th-century events . Why ca n't Americans make comedies as playful but serious as Jiri Menzel 's I Served the King of England ? A comedy-drama with a lot of slapstick , combined with a history lesson about an important chapter of World War II and beyond . ... full appreciation requires both a grasp of European history and an appreciation for stories which have many layers of meaning . The trouble with I Served the King of England is that it 's sometimes bizarre and clever and often visually wonderful , but you never forget that you 're watching a movie . And it does go on . The film 's whirl of history can be a bit vague at times , but that 's a forgivable fault when your senses are so delightfully overwhelmed . The movie 's main appeal is its special comic flavor -- a zesty fusion of picaresque adventure , absurdist whimsy and Chaplinesque grace . Surprisingly sexy and delightfully playful , England will do nothing less than revitalize your faith in movies . Forty years after his breakthrough , Menzel has returned with I Served The King Of England , and it 's like he never left . 	With charm and an eye for life 's bittersweet moments , Czech New Wave master Jiri Menzel paints a picaresque story with whimsy and intellect .
spy kids 3d game over Rodriguez may have overreached his abilities with this film . Spy Kids 3 is much sharper and funnier than the second outing , but the missing pieces , namely the parents and sister , are sorely needed . I was too bored to be properly angry , and too disgusted to be properly lulled to sleep . Robert has betrayed us all . Retains the homemade virtues that made the earlier installments such an un-selfconscious , pleasingly clunky delight . `` Tron '' for the oughts ? Watching Juni and Carmen dodge enemies and jump from platform to platform is about as fun as watching someone else play videogames . While the visuals have gained a dimension , the story has lost one . Eye-candy , but fun . No down time , but had some trouble with the 3-D . Spy Kids 3-D wraps up the series with a bang . It 's never been good to have to enter a movie with a pair of cardboard glasses in hand . Sadly , Spy Kids 3-D continues that trend . 	The movie will be found wanting if one is not taken in by the 3-D visuals .
chaser Na Hong-Jin 's feature debut is a bleakly frantic psycho-noir , furiously edited , ferociously performed - and despite allying itself to the serial killer genre so beloved in the west , it is distinctly Korean in its settings and references . It runs long at over two hours but it is expertly directed , shot , edited , and acted . But The Chaser delivers as a piece of cinema rather like Seven did - it does n't let up for a moment . It runs so fast and twisted a course through a range of tones and genres that just trying to keep up will leave the viewer as breathless as the monstrous protagonist - and it has a real social conscience to boot . This is expert filmmaking at every level , continually adding engaging subtext that touches on family pressures , blind self-interest and warped justice . This playfulness , however , backfires massively in the second half when coincidence and unforeseen consequence conspire uneasily with bloody , messy results . A sizzling film noir that evokes the disillusionment of a once self-confident `` tiger '' economy . It 's hard out here for a detective turned pimp in the thrilling import The Chaser A grisly serial-killer thriller that develops into a howl of outrage at the ineptitude of the system . shifts its tone effortlessly between white-knuckle suspense and investigatory drama 	A frantic and taut Korean serial killer thriller . One classy , if bloody and messy , gut wrencher of a movie .
centurion Flaming arrows , spears , and knives have no problem finding their way to the back of a mouth . The profanity is delightful . And the general atmosphere is grim . The movie just is n't terribly inspired . There is an air of soap-on-location here , a sense that everyone has just trudged from a lunch of pasta bake and a quick scan of the tabloids . You know all the best lines were being had off camera . It 's good to see Marshall taking on another genre , and he certainly does n't disgrace himself : Centurion could have a certain cult appeal , a bit like his apocalyptic oddity Doomsday . It may be cheese , but it 's of a fine vintage . [ T ] he only new thing Marshall brings to the Roman Empire subgenre is gross-out aesthetics . It 's a cat and mouse game where we are stuck rooting for the cat even though it killed and raped thousands of mice . [ Not a heavy-hitter drama ] But the blood flows freely , the fireballs rage , and the slings and arrows are deadly accurate . What 's more , the ending rocks - best downbeat finale I 've seen in a long time . gory and loud The salty dialogue is modern in idiom , but not obtrusively so . Marshall takes the ultra-violent and grim goings on with deadening seriousness , but the temptation to see it all as a rather bad joke is only emphasised by the anachronistic dialogue . 	It 's a bloody geyser of Neil Marshall 's typically stylish B-movie action , but Centurion is too focused on hacking and slashing to deliver original dialogue or interesting characters .
four lions Four Lions is full of funny and fearless humor that , like its protagonists , takes no prisoners . It 's also the best movie of the year thus far . The amount of edge to this edgy comedy and Morris 's chutzpah for demanding that the film 's tone and its uneasy ending remain intact throughout the film 's financing . There 's a weird Muppet Show vibe to the task that involves sublime reaction shots and actual casualty , capturing an extraordinary tone of absurdity that gives the film a special wink . The movie falters with an inconsistent tone . When it works -- and it does n't half the time -- it 's as if Monty Python were back , putting its merrily imbecilic stamp on the dark world of terrorism . Parts of the film are very funny and parts are misfires . But even on the misfires one almost feels one should laugh just to support the very idea of the film . The director , Chris Morris , has been successfully making TV and radio comedies for 20 years . But he falters in this , his first feature . He 's taken what might make a funny sketch and forced it to run more than an hour and a half . The funniest gags are simultaneously the most awful , the kind you feel bad laughing at but you just ca n't stop . Pitch black comedy laughs in the face of fear and compassion simultaneously . Four Lions is about as funny and ferocious as films come . Never before has the phrase 'You 'll laugh ; you 'll cry ! ' seemed like such a genuine , ominous threat . Chris Morris ' confronting satire is not for the faint-hearted . 	Its premise suggests brazenly tasteless humor , but Four Lions is actually a smart , pitch-black comedy that carries the unmistakable ring of truth .
shall we dance this is a thoroughly likable flick , one that will have even the most rhythmically challenged schlub leaving the theater with a bounce in his step and twinkle in his eye . A sugarcoated American remake with all the same charms , but also the same flaws . You may want to sit this one out . Under the clunky direction of Peter Chelsom , while forced to mouth inane dialogue by Audrey Wells ... a swell bunch of troupers get mangled in a monsoon of clichs . When the movie focuses on Gere 's marriage to Susan Sarandon and how honesty can save love , Dance will sneakily kick-step its way into your heart . Lopez ... lords over the movie like a narcissistic devil . a melodramatic nightmare marred by poorly contrived situations and emotionally weak characters The central idea -- that losing yourself in a small , private world can help you to better engage the larger world -- is n't lost in translation . Cute romance that is marred by homophobia . It 's a surprisingly acceptable variation on a theme . 	The cast is warmly appealing , but with the loss of cultural context and addition of big-name celebrities , this American version loses the nuances of the original .
theres something about mary The trouble with the Farrelly brothers is that in order to get a laugh , they dump on everybody and everything . ... sophomoric , politically incorrect , exaggerated , overdone , and trivial . Yet it 's as hilarious as anything ever filmed . Farrelly bros ' classic is full of gross-out laughs . Overall , a cute comedy with a decent premise . The funniest movie I have seen in a long time . Anyone who can tap into the Farrellys ' truly sick and twisted wavelength will find a mother lode of laughs . The Farrellys have the gift for generating laughter from discomfort and vice versa , an insight commonly misconstrued as bad taste . Sure it 's ridiculous . Sure it 's in generally poor taste . So what ? A gut-busting blast of tasteless tomfoolery . This film is remarkably intelligent and totally honest about an intriguing topic , the topic of obsession . 	There 's Something About Mary proves that unrelentingly , unabashedly peurile humor does n't necessarily come at the expense of a film 's heart .
addams family Deliciously sick and delightfully cast . Cinematographer-turned-director Barry Sonnenfeld and screenwriters Larry Wilson and Caroline Thompson have n't solved the problem of how to construct a film around a one-joke concept . The quality of humor varies from very black to very silly . An otherwise very funny scene featuring Thing amounts to an extended ad for Federal Express , and the rap beats from Hammer 's new album boom from passing cars in several scenes -- nothing will date this movie faster . Great translation of the classic television series . Has just enough dark comedy to make it memorable . Ooky the Addamses may be , subversive they ai n't ; it plays like a paean to the nuclear family . A twisted treat . Despite inspired casting and nifty visual trappings , the eagerly awaited Addams Family figures as a major disappointment . There are a lot of little smiles in The Addams Family , and many chuckles and grins , but they do n't add up to much . 	The movie is peppered with amusing sight gags and one-liners , but the disjointed script does n't cohere into a successful whole .
1021244-thing If it 's the most vividly guesome monster ever to stalk the screen that audiences crave , then The Thing is the thing . On all other levels , however , John Carpenter 's remake of Howard Hawks ' 1951 sci-fi classic comes as a letdown . The Thing is a masterpiece : a black comedy , monster movie , conspiracy thriller and whodunit . I never got into this . Very slow , dated special effects , and obvious exploration of the paranoia theme . This is one of those great films which inspire inarticulate awe within your humble narrator rather than verbose declarations of praise . Films like this make me hope against hope that , some day ... one day ... the real John Carpenter will return . The original has been built up to classic scale , but Carpenter 's remake is actually far scarier and equally thoughtful . ... reading this as a Cold War allegory is doing the movie a very big favor . In reality , this is a film about tentacles and teeth and eyes and orifices and goo , goo , goo . Not just an excellent remake , it 's an excellent movie , and an almost perfect horror movie ... It personifies the definition of `` popcorn entertainment '' - that is , the kind of film that relishes the thrill of its many ambitious moments without seeking total transcendence . Horror movies do n't get much better than this . 	Grimmer and more terrifying than the 1950s take , John Carpenter 's The Thing is a tense sci-fi thriller rife with compelling tension and some remarkable make-up effects .
the illusionist-2009 A lovely appreciation of Tati and a loving , bittersweet look at the end of the 1950s , before entertainers like the magician of the title were displaced by rock bands and other more visceral acts . This `` The Illusionist '' does not star a goateed Edward Norton romancing luscious Jessica Biel while Rufus Sewell fumes , royally . But it is a bit of magic nonetheless . The story has enough sentimental schmaltz to grease a locomotive . Gorgeous , and full of bittersweet whimsy , The Illusionist is animator Sylvain Chomet 's follow-up to his Oscar-nominated The Triplets of Belleville . An 80-minute , hand-drawn animated French film without dialogue and with one of the most depressing finale acts ever committed to celluloid : this is The Illusionist . It 's also some sort of divine masterpiece . The story has a delicate bittersweet tone much too rarely present in contemporary films . ... captures the low-key slapstick spirit of the French great , while also being a mournful reminiscence on the death of vaudeville . The exquisite illustrative signature style of Sylvain Chomet leaves a haunting impression in this whimsical tale about an illusionist who delights a young girl with magic The slender story demands nostalgia and sentimentality the way a horror film requires blood . A clich-riddled nostalgia trip . 	An engrossing love letter to fans of adult animation , The Illusionist offers a fine antidote to garish mainstream fare .
1125461-luther What started out strong peters out in the second half , splitting it into a grab bag of little pieces with no sense of resolution . Completely stealing the picture , Peter Ustinov ... is breathtakingly brilliant . even with apparent lack of objectivity , LUTHER proves to be more interesting and more accurate depiction of history than anything recently produced by Hollywood Engrossing , as much for its history lesson as for its filmmaking . Both as a veteran movie reviewer and long-time Lutheran , I left the theater with the feeling that `` Luther '' is a good movie about a great man . For all its scope and detail , Luther fails to convey the sense of history moved by a compelling individual . An unholy mess . As the film veers uncertainly between meticulous historical recapitulation and shameless hokum , it brings enough characters to populate a mini-series . An effective history lesson , but not nearly riveting enough to be as entertaining as it is earnest . If this movie succeeds at anything , it 's being as messy as the Reformation itself . 	This cinematic treatment of Martin Luther 's life is more dull than inspiring .
chungking express I 've never been a big fan of technique that calls attention to itself , but Wong 's frenetic blend of slow motion , pixilation , rushing backgrounds and frozen foregrounds ( or vice versa ) is as integral to this movie as its bubbly story and characters . At its best moments , this movie delivers a sustained jolt of pure cinema ; it 'll get you high . Chungking Express is unlike almost any film I have ever seen , and yet it is like almost every film I have ever seen . Its imagination , character and vitality set it apart from its peers . Although decidedly meandering and somewhat inconclusive , is also completely unpredictable . A quicksilver magical mystery tour through the lives of a bunch of young downtown loners . Dull it is not , but Wong 's trademark sense of romantic melancholy fails to jell amid all the excess . Despite the liveliness of Chungking Express 's first half , it 's this second story that catapults it into the company of Wong 's best films . A wild-eyed kind of venture and definitely something new at the movies . Quentin Tarantino and Xavier Dolan are just two of the directors who 've worshipped at the altar of Wong Kar-wai . Chungking Express remains the best reason why . This is what Godard movies were once like : fast , hand-held , funny and very , very catchy . 	Even if all it had to offer were writer-director Wong Kar-wai 's thrillingly distinctive visuals , Chungking Express would be well worth watching ; happily , its thoughtfully drawn characters and naturalistic performances also pack a potent dramatic wallop .
winged migration While lacking in traditional drama and suffering from a slightly repetitive structure , Winged Migration has its emotional high points . Each moving picture frame is worth a thousand words and a million emotions . Winged Migration ... does n't educate your mind as much as soothe your soul . And for 89 blissful minutes , that 's just fine . Um filme para ser visto na telona , e no na tev . Winged Migration is a quite astounding feat of cinema . Iif you 're in the mood for a film of staggering beauty that will open your eyes to one of the wonders of the natural world breathtakingly captured in all its glory , color , and movement , this is a must see . Like the subject of Mother Nature herself , you could complain and fixate on certain nagging elements , but if you do it too much you might miss the over-all beauty of it . Best to just let the movie , and nature , work its magic on you . The amazing imagery that fills the screen magically mixes a National Geographic special with the artistry of Fantasia and the awe of Koyaanisqatsi . Winged Migration must be the most subversive G-rated film ever . The point of this true-life adventure is not the dissemination of information but the instilling of a sense of awe in the viewer ... 	A marvel to watch .
eraserhead David Lynch 's filmic immersion into the surreal world of his distinctly odd protagonist Henry Spencer ( Jack Nance ) comes through in a creepy black-and-white black comedy that functions perfectly as a nerve-wracking exercise in existential horror . Lynch 's remarkable first feature is a true original . Eraserhead was David Lynch 's first feature length film , and it 's the real thing : raw , uncompromised , more visceral than anything he 's done since . ... expertly crafted , wildly imaginative and deeply , deeply disturbing What 's it about ? I can hear you shout . Therein lies the rub : not much really . The purest essence of David Lynch . The DVD may be $ 40 , but it 's worth it , particularly if you 've never seen it . The discomfort we feel with the film indicates that the truths contained in Eraserhead , whatever they may be , are as surely true as they are unexamined . a nightmarish spin down an industrial-wasteland rabbit hole that is equal parts surreal head-scratcher and emotionally driven horrorshow David Lynch never explains because he does n't need to , his is the faith of the irrational , disconcertingly childlike in its illusionism . ... I found this imaginative work to be one of the more interesting films to come out of the '70s . 	David Lynch 's surreal Eraserhead uses detailed visuals and a creepy score to create a bizarre and disturbing look into a man 's fear of parenthood .
white men cant jump It 's a funny , frequently rousing film , with a warmly appealing acting partnership at its center-between basketball hustlers Wesley Snipes and Woody Harrelson . [ White Men Ca n't Jump is ] like a game of pick-up basketball : it 's intense , raggedy and explosive , now and then yielding moments of sheer gravity-defying grace , yet just as capable of producing air balls and pratfalls . ... the formula is hackneyed and could get tiresome quickly if it were n't for the energy of its stars and the inventive style of its writer-director , Ron Shelton . White Man Ca n't Jump is most effective at the beginning -- when it 's bouncing along with the exuberance that Shelton brought to such other sports-minded movies as Bull Durham and The Best of Times . Ron Shelton 's film about two basketball hustlers has n't aged well . A fresh and exuberant romantic comedy that is as smart about playground basketball as Bull Durham was about minor league baseball . Even basketball-phobes will enjoy it . Amusing and fun . A double-whammy slam-dunker of a movie . Writer/director Ron Shelton is that rare beast : someone who can make movies with wit , warmth and perception about American sports . 	White Men Ca n't Jump provides a fresh take on the sports comedy genre , with a clever script and a charismatic trio of leads .
girl interrupted Artfully crafted and well acted , and it deserves special praise for sidestepping cliches . Ends up suffering from the classic diseases of book -to- film adaptation . The acting by Ryder , Jolie , and Goldberg is excellent enough to forgive the problems inherent in the script . Sincerity of acting can cover ( or expose ) the holes in a movie , and when the sincerity comes with the big , button eyes and cute chopped hair of Winona Ryder , the basic tendency of an audience is to simply go with her , and so with the film . It 's difficult to make a film about depressive types that is n't depressing . You can drive yourself crazy , or you can get over it . The choice is yours . A listless showcase of Hollywood clichs about crazy people , the '60s , and women , a reactionary , distaff Cuckoo 's Nest . A female version of One Flew Over the Cuckoo 's Nest with no group dynamic . Powerful look at mental illness ; ages 16+ . Does it matter that every time Jolie 's offscreen the film wilts a little ? Ryder should be perfect as the bright spark ; her lines are sharp as a knife . There 's a gap , however , between what we hear and what we see . 	Angelina Jolie gives an intense performance , but overall Girl , Interrupted suffers from thin , predictable plotting that fails to capture the power of its source material .
being there Amazingly poignant performance by Peter Sellers . One of those movies that always seems fresh and relevant . In fact , this is one instance where the work seems more relevant to our own era than it did during its own time If you are going to see only one Peter Sellers movie , see Dr. Strangelove , but if you 're going to see two , then Being There also belongs on your must-see list . A placid , poignant , well-kept secret of a movie . Brilliant Ashby classic , Peter Sellers ' best . Jerzy Kosinski 's modern fable gets a terrific translation to the screen due to his tight screenplay , capable direction by Ashby , and a marvelous performance by Sellers , one unlike any other in his career . Being There ( 1979 ) , subtitled `` a story of chance , '' is a provocative black comedy -- a wonderful tale that satirizes politics , celebrity , media-obsession and television . It 's perhaps the great comic actor 's most emotionally moving role . Sellers ' best a product not of Ashby 's essential modesty but of Kosinski 's essential egoism . 	Smart , sophisticated , and refreshingly subtle , Being There soars behind sensitive direction from Hal Ashby and a stellar Peter Sellers performance .
station agent The powerfully understated charmer , The Station Agent , is nothing more - and nothing less -- than the quiet study of a gently unfurling friendship between three misfits . A little gem . A splendid human drama about making the sorts of connections that do n't require a dial-up tone . The movie has humor that 's not derived from ridicule and an appeal based on the idea that relationships can be a comforting buffer in an often cruel world . It 's a wonderful picture that hides its sprawling aspirations in a modest package . The Station Agent never leaves its sleepy patch of New Jersey . But when it 's over , you know you 've been somewhere . A pleasurably quaint tale . As touching and original a movie as you 're likely to see this year . The Station Agent takes a simple theme -- loneliness and the inability or unwillingness to connect -- and makes it both funnier and more touching than you could imagine . ... experience this wonderful movie as soon as possible . 	A sweet and quirky film about a dwarf , a refreshment stand operator , and a reclusive artist connecting with one another .
1019187-sleeping beauty The colors are rich , the sounds are luscious and magic sparkles spurt charmingly from wands . Is this the point when Disney animation lost its charm ? Despite being understandably technologically eclipsed ... Sleeping Beauty still possesses an ageless Technirama charm and joie de vivre that 's hard to find in many modern children 's films . Technical wizardry apart , it 's the supporting characters that make the difference , in this case the trio of plump guardians Flora , Fauna and Merryweather , and iconic villainess Maleficent the wicked fairy . One of the handful of Disney features that can be rightfully called perfect . This was the most expensive animated film to date , and every penny was on the screen . Has poor party etiquette ever been so costly ? Sleeping Beauty is a masterpiece that looks and sounds better than ever on Blu-ray , and with an outstanding selection of fascinating special features , this is a release that is easily labeled a must-own . Mary Costa 's rich and expressive voice for the title character gives substance and strength to it . Has grown better with age . 	This Disney dreamscape contains moments of grandeur , with its lush colors , magical air , one of the most menacing villains in the Disney canon .
the conformist The unsettling blend of images and ideas in this movie can not satisfactorily be disentangled or decoded , and it 's the very strangeness of Bertolucci 's masterpiece that has made it so influential in cinema history . A beautifully imagined portrait of moral and political cowardice . One of Bertolucci 's best films , The Conformist makes a provocative connection between repressed sexual desires and fascist politics . It 's a superb performance by Trintignant , whose presence is the film is physically passive even as he tries to play the confident , intellectual leader of men . It 's yesteryear remembered with a combination of nostalgia and repulsion , a queasy combination that defines the film and gives it a kind of hideous allure . Talvez o melhor filme de Bertolucci , esta obra-prima magnificamente fotografada por Storaro to formidvel em sua construo esttica e narrativa que cada praticamente todo plano se presta a anlises longas e profundas . The movie is pure magic as story , as drama , as photography , as conviction , as everything except its ideas . Ravishing to the eye but less than fully satisfying to the mind . Juggling past and present with the same bravura flourish as Welles in Citizen Kane , Bertolucci conjures a dazzling historical and personal perspective . All hail the revival of one of Bernardo Bertolucci 's best films . 	A commentary on fascism and beauty alike , Bernardo Bertolucci 's The Conformist is acclaimed for its sumptuous visuals and extravagant , artful cinematography .
full metal jacket ... uses a full range of cinematic language to comment on an institution that `` eats its own guts '' as it destroys foreign cultures . The director is ruthless in his depiction of combat and the process by which these soldiers come to realize that they are , like it says on the side of Matthew Modine 's helmet , born to kill . If his considerable achievement in this long- awaited film falls short of his Olympian standards , there is a reason that ought to give Kubrick some satisfaction . The world has caught up with Kubrick and what he has to say . While its message is simple -- innocent young Americans are taught to be machine-like killers -- its technique is extraordinary . The movie warrants a response that is perhaps the closest thing possible on film to witnessing the mayhem firsthand . Though shot in the U.K. and thus lacking authentic look and feel , Kubrick 's contribution to the Vietnam War films is a powerful chronicle of the military as a bureaucracy that turns young innocent men into machine-like killers . It still stands as a timeless meditation on war and its effects . One of the finest war movies of all time ... at least of the few hundred I 've seen . It may not be the best film Kubrick ever made , but it 's still Kubrick , meaning it 's better than almost anything else in cinema . [ Kubrick 's ] third best . 	Intense , tightly constructed , and darkly comic at times , Stanley Kubrick 's Full Metal Jacket may not boast the most original of themes , but it is exceedingly effective at communicating them .
1075984-iron monkey The fights are spectacular and the cinematography is absolutely breathtaking . Modestly successful on its own terms , but simply does n't stand up to comparisons with the infinitely more substantial Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon . With its slapstick tone and cartoonish action , Iron Monkey is probably appropriate for all but the youngest martial artists . Monkey ends up being 86 minutes of action with none of the character depth that made Crouching Tiger an international sensation . You see it for its punch-outs the way you see Riverdance for its stomping . People will finally understand why overseas audiences yawned when they saw Crouching Tiger . A breathtaking pleasure certain to build anticipation for Yuen 's future directing efforts on this side of the globe . It 's funny , heroic , exaggerated and , most of all , energetic ; the film speeds along as though afraid to lose the audience 's attention for even a moment . If you 're a fan of the genre , this is a must . As good as `` Crouching Tiger , '' but without the austere air about it , this movie is pure , unadulterated fun . Yuen Wo Ping strings together one eye-popping action sequence after another . 	Iron Monkey may not have the poetic lyricism of Crouching Tiger , it makes up for it in fun and energy .
flintstones in viva rock vegas Forsaking story for sight gags and brief comedic moments , the film simply does n't have enough of them to compensate for a lame and lackluster plot . There are still some pretty funny lines and gags . The Flintstones in Viva Rock Vegas is cute and funny , with plenty of slapstick and cuddly creatures for the kids and enough adult wit to keep parents reasonably amused . Kids are certain to love The Flintstones in Viva Rock Vegas , but Mom and Dad wo n't mind going along -- it 's a yabba-dabba-delight . Much like a hunk of rock candy -- sort of interesting-looking but ultimately none too fulfilling . Not bad , not bad at all . Ultimately , The Flintstones leaves one as cold as marble . The Flintstones in Viva Rock Vegas stumbles at its outset by setting up an adult premise inevitably undone by the film 's aspirations to family entertainment . It 's not delightful or funny or exciting , and for long stretches , it looks exactly like hapless actors standing in front of big rocks and reciting sitcom dialogue . The cast from the first Flintstones movie has gone off to break rocks somewhere else . 	The prequel to the first full-length feature set in Bedrock , Viva Rock Vegas is a surprising improvement over The Flintstones . Aimed towards an audience of adults and children alike , critics feel Viva will appeal to a broad range of viewers .
shallow hal Paltrow 's performance alone is worth seeing , but the rest of the film ca n't shed its dead weight . An uneasy blend of the naughty and the nice in which the two ingredients fail to mesh ... .The result is n't bad ; it 's just not good enough . The Farrellys take an artistic step backward with this soft , disappointingly sentimental comedy about the true nature of beauty ; they seem to have forgotten their roots in the outrageous and gross-out . Against all odds , there 's something about Shallow Hal . By preaching that beauty comes from within while simultaneously leering at slender examples of the female form and poking fun at the portly , Shallow Hal undermines its own message . I 'm always skeptical of moral lessons from Hollywood -- especially lectures about the beauty of fat people from writer-directors whose last three films have starred ... stick-thin types . I almost hate to have to say this but the Farrellys might be better off going back to their rude-and-crude roots instead of mucking around with this sensitivity business . We 've seen so many crummy comedies that try to be There 's Something About Mary or something like this . And the Farrelly brothers come to the rescue and show us how it 's done . We 're warmly encouraged to feel the hurt that Rosemary constantly lives with , made vivid by a notably touching , sensitive performance from sylphlike Paltrow . If you 've seen the trailer , you 've seen the best of the movie , and there is n't really that much good stuff to go around . 	While surprisingly sweeter and warm-hearted than previous Farrelly outings , Shallow Hal is also less funny and more bland .
statement The film operates well as a thriller and probably goes further than intended in extracting sympathy for its reprehensible protagonist . Confused at its core and too befuddled to make that a virtue . For the most part , though , there really is n't enough suspense or drama to make The Statement more than an occasionally chilling civics lesson . Em funo de sua prpria premissa , apresenta questes ticas interessantes . Seems more an excuse to attack a target than an exercise in solid storytelling . This Ludlum-esque political thriller ... might be funny if it was n't exploiting such a serious topic as the Holocaust . The film is rather unbelievable , even though it 's based on real-life tales of the Vichy Milice . `` The Statement is that rare , unassuming movie that has much to say and is so daring in its message that it is a wonder it has seen the light of day '' Ends up being tedious . All Jewison has to offer us is an exquisitely packaged reminder of the Catholic Church 's collaboration with the Vichy government . But why distort history when your sole purpose is to offer a history lesson ? 	The movie bores despite a splendid performance by Michael Caine .
legend of bagger vance While everything about Bagger Vance looks stunning , its perfectionism comes at the price of genuine drama . [ Redford ] tells this superficial fairy tale with warmth and expert care . Another lusciously produced , emotionally clammy Redford enterprise -- forced , phony mythmaking filled with tinged sunsets and full moons . A soothing , attractive film to watch . A tender , well-acted , and most of all controlled and adult yarn whose mythic roots could scarcely be lost on any viewer . The problem is that it 's about golf . If you 're open to the spiritual message , it does resonate in an intriguing way . It succumbs to a simplistic plot and a suffocating overload of sentimentality , at times so sweet it could give Mr. Rogers diabetes . Call it Caddying Miss Damon . I call it 18 holes of boredom . La cinta es melosa en grado superlativo , sin embargo tiene momentos emotivos que encantarn al auditorio ( me incluyo , me incluyo ) . 	Despite the talent involved in The Legend of Bagger Vance , performances are hindered by an inadequate screenplay full of flat characters and bad dialogue . Also , not much happens , and some critics are offended by how the film glosses over issues of racism .
beverly hills cop 2 The film seems ... to be a precisely timed affair : so many seconds for this , so many for that , and the natural flow of the story be damned . Pointless , hateful sequel . Just interested in being more BHC ; nobody really bothered with quality control . Not quite as frenetically fun as the original , but Murphy still works his game . Murphy still has energy and charisma to spare and raises the performances of the more subdued actors that surround him . This ultraslick , laughless sequel suffers from Axel Foley 's personality overhaul into a complete jerk . What is comedy ? That 's a pretty basic question , I know , but Cop II never thought to ask it . Fun sequel Not as good as the original , but fast and funny enough to suffice fans Skip this one and go back to the first 'Cop . ' 	Eddie Murphy remains appealing as the wisecracking Axel Foley , but Beverly Hills Cop II does n't take him -- or the viewer -- anywhere new enough to justify a sequel .
sweetgrass An interesting documentary about the last large sheep drive in Montana with cowboys who are not romanticized Even viewers caught unaware of just how natural this documentary is could easily find themselves mesmerized by its unique charms . I have no doubt that , come the end of the year , Sweetgrass will be on the `` 10 Best '' lists . It is that memorable for pictorial , cultural and even moral reasons . As it progresses it begins to strike a subtly elegiac , unsentimental tone ... If Avatar was last year 's best-looking film , 2011 's award may well go to a documentary shot for small change concerning sheep . No , really . The movie is decidedly no frills , and it both lives and dies by this strict adherence to its protocol . This beautiful and hypnotic documentary shows the agony and the ecstasy of herding sheep up into Montana 's Beartooth mountains for the summer pasture . It would be foolish not to experience this film . There are audience rewards for sticking with the herd and its lonesome cowboys . Sweetgrass is probably the definition of niche , but one dedicated to some of the highest ideals of film : it brings us information from a place we 've never been , and with a rapturous innocence . 	At once tender and unsentimental , Sweetgrass gracefully captures the beauty and hardships of a dying way of life .
1001577-badlands It 's a testament to Bruce Greenwood 's acting that Adan never becomes entirely as insufferable as the words that come out of his mouth . Badlands ( 1973 ) is the remarkable and impressive directorial debut from twenty-nine year old director Terrence Malick The movie is just as free , experimental , and unsure of itself as its main characters are , and thus fits like a glove . In the fall of 1973 , one could see signposts of cinema 's future in Mean Streets and The Exorcist , yet with this youthful pair of proto-indie dreamers , Malick was paving a whole new road . It turned out to be the path most traveled . Unfortunately , movies about banal people are often banal themselves . Like Bonnie and Clyde , Badlands could be seen as a poetic ballad or folktale , but unlike that film , it does n't romanticize its protags , instead using distancing devices such as Sissy Spacek 's affectless narration . minimizes the inherent sensationalism of its material with a deliberately slow pace , and Malick constantly undercuts the potential thrill of on-screen violence by rendering it awkward , vicious , and ugly Terrence Malick 's first masterpiece . Essential viewing . Days of Heaven put Terrence Malick 's intuitions into cogent form , but this is where his art begins . A groundbreaking seminal folk tale about aimless youths . 	Terrence Malick 's debut is a masterful slice of American cinema , rife with the visual poetry and measured performances that would characterize his work .
howls moving castle Prepare to be thoroughly enchanted . Prepare also to be challenged in ways that few current movies bother with , live action or otherwise . Despite the muddy narrative ... It 's the more intimate character relationships that ultimately make Howl 's Moving Castle work as a whole . Decades from now Howl 's Moving Castle will be looked back at as a classic . The story ... carries a weak narrative thread that gets lost in the shuffle of magic and mayhem . It is so intriguing . At its best , Howl 's Moving Castle offers a rich fantasy of adolescent escape , of romance in the old and epic sense . If you 've yet to take the anime plunge , this is a fine place to start ; if you 're an old hand , you will not be disappointed . Miyazaki does n't push children down a familiar path . He takes off the training wheels and dares to ask young viewers to imagine alongside him . Even if the plot leaves something to be desired in terms of explanation , it can be followed if you stay on your toes . Either way , Howl 's Moving Castle is a marvel to watch . An insanely creative work . 	Exquisitely illustrated by master animator Miyazaki , Howl 's Moving Castle will delight children with its fantastical story and touch the hearts and minds of older viewers as well .
birdman 2014 Keaton grabs hold of his role and tears into it with a witty blend of pure crazy and subtle nuances as needed . For those going with the flow , it should not matter that , as in the stageplay within the screenplay , not everything fits together according to strict logic . If you believe you can fly , why then you can . One of the wildest , funniest , most heartbreaking and purest performances on film . Ever . Manic energy and overriding sense of fun ... The lunatic performances by Keaton and Norton are the highlights . Alejandro Gonzlez Irritu 's Birdman is so good , so profoundly entertaining , so confident that it makes you wonder whether the other Irritu -- the director of such weighty magazine spreads as 21 Grams , Babel , and Biutiful -- was a fraud all along . Some fresh takes on midlife crises , celebrities in America , and the wild popularity of the social media . Birdman is a strange , beautiful and loony story about passion and pain but also a crazy cool celebration of filmmaking , movie magic and all of the glorious reasons why we love watching motion pictures . It 's all a bit satirical . Or maybe not . Look , over there , Shakespeare in a superhero cape ! Birdman , more than most , seems a film that deserves a second viewing , not only to admire the work of Keaton and his co-stars , but to delve into its many layers . There are many things by which one should be amazed in Alejandro G. Irritu 's Birdman , so let 's start with the most obvious : Irritu and Oscar-winning cinematographer Emmanuel Lubezki have constructed Birdman to look like one continuous , two-hour take . 	A thrilling leap forward for director Alejandro Gonzlez Irritu , Birdman is an ambitious technical showcase powered by a layered story and outstanding performances from Michael Keaton and Edward Norton .
you cant take it with you 1938 You Ca n't Take It With You does reveal the liberation offered by non-alienating work and examines the matrices between class and gender , as few other films do . It 's one of those movies that 's just so enjoyable , you 're disappointed when it ends . The usual sentimental corny uplifting melodrama from director Frank Capra . There are still some laughs and entertainment to be found here , but forget about fidelity to the original . To this day , there 's rarely been a more joyful celebration of the unconventional than You Ca n't Take It with You . An entertaining , if saccharine film , packed with enough loony activity to keep the laughs coming from start to finish . One of the most lovable characters in movies is Lionel Barrymore 's Vanderhoff . He 's a smart , carefree guy who magically changes people 's lives and gives them hope ! Demonstrates Capra 's skill at tweaking the heartstrings as well as the funny bone . The tempo is generally fast and there are no sudden spurts or sharp letdowns . Its stage origins might be all too obvious , but the excellent ensemble cast makes it an enjoyable breeze , and the in-laws meeting scene is farce comedy at its best . 	It 's predictably uplifting fare from Frank Capra , perhaps the most consciously uplifting of all great American directors -- but thanks to immensely appealing performances and a nimble script , You Ca n't Take It With You is hard not to love .
time bandits An intoxicating dose of children 's entertainment of the rarest and weirdest and most delirious kind . Perhaps the greatest characteristic attributable to Time Bandits is its sense of invention . The movie does so many things , all of them well . Amazingly well-produced . The historic locations are jammed with character and detail . This is the only live-action movie I 've seen that literally looks like pages out of Heavy Metal magazine . Director Terry Gilliam 's entire career has been spent as an endearing fight against convention . This is his most stalwart example , as the principle cast is comprised of midgets . Frequent bursts of twisted humour , several flashes of horror and a ton of first-class Brit cameos combine to ensure their movie never ages . It 's generally a lot of clever fun -- and if there is a Supreme Being , we can only hope he 's like Ralph Richardson . Creeped me out as a kid . Holds up well . Ex-Python Gilliam is one of the great conjurers of cinema , and this film is proof of his ample and unpredictable talent . Time Bandits is probably Terry Gilliam 's most accessible film . Brazil will always be known as his greatest artistic achievement , but for sheer entertainment Time Bandits is one of his best . It 's ... well , imagine 'Willow ' on crack . 	Time Bandits is a remarkable time-travel fantasy from Terry Gilliam , who utilizes fantastic set design and homemade special effects to create a vivid , original universe .
rush 2013 The film is outrageously enjoyable . Howard 's most accomplished film to date . Rush is a fast-paced tour de force that will entertain audiences until Ron Howard waves his checkered flag , displaying a wonderfully memorable performance by Chris Hemsworth , and an even more remarkable turn by Daniel Brhl . The thriller tells us all we need to know about the real-life champion Formula 1 rivals in the early 1970s . With fine performances , extraordinary evocations of key races , a sweaty '70s feel and a celebratory aspect as we fondly remember two diehard nutters , this is n't called Rush for nothing . Ron Howard , working with Danny Boyle 's favored cinematographer Anthony Dod Mantle , has made perhaps his most visually arresting work in three decades behind the camera . Rush stands proudly as another remarkable showpiece of the 59-year-old filmmaker 's underrated talent in crafting everyman art . A solid film , but one that remains more interesting than intense . Rush will reel you in with its heart pounding racing sequences , but the film will win you over with its compassion . Absolutely exhilarating , amusing , and passionate to the very end , Rush is a film that has no right to be as good as it is . Solid performances from Brhl and Hemsworth ground this exciting sports story with a likable mix of charisma , reverence , and speed . 	A sleek , slick , well-oiled machine , Rush is a finely crafted sports drama with exhilarating race sequences and strong performances from Chris Hemsworth and Daniel Brhl .
1207748-katyn The subject , the 1940 massacre of Polish officers and intellectuals by the Soviets , merits attention , but though personal ( Wajda 's father was a victim ) , Katyn is just a decent , far from great , melodrama due to helmer 's curiously cold , detached approach . Impeccably shot and edited , this harrowing drama digs into the mystery of the murder of some 12,000 Polish officers in the early 1940s , which the Soviets falsely blamed on the Nazis . It 's extremely grim , but well worth seeing . This was the film Wajda wanted to make all his life . This powerful , heartfelt and important drama from one of the great names in world cinema deserves to be seen . Andrjez Wajda , whose father was one of the officers killed in Katyn , uses the event to explore some of the unhealed wounds suffered by the Poles in World War II . The great Polish director Andrzej Wajda musters the power of classical filmmaking and personal emotional investment to dramatize a stunning atrocity long covered up . Wajda has assembled a really amazing ensemble cast to realize an excellent script ... beautifully shot by Pawel Edelman with some truly gorgeous sequences . Katyn is remarkably concise and ( if one may say this about a cinematic commemoration of mass murder ) elegant . An example of how a master filmmaker can make the past -- in this case a World War II-era massacre -- possess a bracing immediacy . Polish director Andrzej Wajda 's film earned an Oscar nomination last year despite its departure from every Hollywood con The principal success of Wajda 's stately , widescreen and exquisitely shot film lies in its sober attempt to mirror the fragmented truth of a genocide . 	Masterfully crafted by an experienced directorial hand , Katyn is a powerful , personal depiction of wartime tragedy .
3 iron A mesmerizing , offbeat , violent , playful yet serious parable . A delicate tone poem for your eyes . Lo mejor de esta fascinante y extraa pelcula es todo lo que dispara en el espectador en su intento por encontrarle un significado . Wings of Desire ... in reverse Raises questions that are more frustrating than provocative . You realize that you 've been more hypnotized than intellectually involved . The movie is nothing like a think piece , just a clever diversion , like a glossy action movie . Moves from a strangely spiritual reality to a really strange spirituality -- and leaves its best parts behind . Quiet , mysterious , sometimes violent , ultimately close to sublime . Evanescence is the movie 's most distinguishing characteristic . A strange , marvelously romantic escapade about an unusual young man with an even more unusual pastime . 	A tender and moving romance from Spring , Summer , Fall , Winter ... And Spring 's director Kim Ki-Duk .
1068832-sense and sensibility A glorious return to old-fashioned filmmaking at its best . It 's bliss . Thompson 's script hits its peak by keeping Austen 's voice yet finding the satirical smirk behind it . Sense and Sensibility is an absorbing , delightful , and nuanced movie . A triumph for Taiwan 's most famous director , Ang Lee . Thompson and Winslet give fine performances ably supported by the rest of the ensemble . I do n't want to see another movie for the rest of the year . To do so would be to spoil the joy I experienced in seeing Sense and Sensibility . Seeing a world that seems kinder , gentler , nobler and simpler to our own can have its own theraputic value . Wonderful adaptation of Jane Austen 's novel . The movie is good fun , boasting a dozen vivid characters and two that moviegoers will take to heart . 	Sense and Sensibility is an uncommonly deft , very funny Jane Austen adaptation , marked by Emma Thompson 's finely tuned performance .
lake placid An almost mystifyingly bad movie ! About the only thing that rescues LAKE PLACID from drecksville is Kelley 's flair for sarcastic dialogue . ... even though everything in sight defines cinematic repulsion , that does n't mean you still ca n't have a good time . Different , funny . It stinks so bad that Buntzen Lake , where this bogus effort was partly filmed , probably still reeks . An ideal summer movie ! It 's neither Jaws-scary nor Tremors-funny , but genre-movie fans in 1999 did have a chance to feast on the year 's talkiest , most neurotic horror movie . They respectfully declined . Laughably stupid , only fitfully scary . Nonsensical drivel ! Very funny ; unconventionally effective ! 	Faux horror schtick fails to elicit any laughs or scares .
music of the heart A generic story of triumph as unengaging as it is unbelievable in its details . A movie that tells a story not from some Hollywood swifty 's febrile imagination , but rather from life . The standard plotline of a teacher bearing the torch of liberal enlightenment to an educationally bereft group comes off rather dubiously here . The disappointment in Music of the Heart comes from a strangely fragmented narrative that never quite commits to a central story . The movie 's big payoff is largely earned , and does not spoil what is a genuinely inspirational movie . Audience-pleasing Music certainly is , but whether it comes from the heart or directly from the tearducts is another question . Some movies you want to see . Some movies you need to see . Music Of The Heart is one of the latter . Boring as it may have become for Meryl Streep to show up for awards ceremonies , count on her to be doing it again . You might be able to tell what direction the movie 's headed in , but you 'll never outguess Streep . Most movies claiming to be based on fact pour on the melodrama , but this one basically just sticks to the real story , which has all the emotional wallop that 's needed . 	Meryl Streep 's depiction of an ordinary person doing extraordinary things transcends , inspires , and entertains .
babe pig in the city It 's George Miller 's masterpiece , maybe even the best commercial film of 1998 . ... a completely new experience for the audience and the film 's characters , and virtually , one of the best sequels that has ever come along in the past decade . Darker than the original , not for very young kids . Even more fun than the original ! Despite its G-rating , the movie includes numerous scenes of animals in peril , including a pit bull that nearly hangs himself , a crippled dog that gets thrown into a wall and a goldfish that almost suffocates ... Happy holidays , kids ! It may not be as fresh as its predecessor , it still begs a look-see . As the year winds down , this is one fine holiday ham that should be savored , not skinned . A surrealistic spectacle ! We found the conflict of the film 's lighthearted fun and its dark and menacing danger too incongruous for its own good ! Grounding all the mayhem in emotional priority is the little pig that could . This is the stuff of Dickens , told on the scale of Blade Runner and Brazil , with the madcap spirit of The Great Muppet Caper . 	Not quite as good as the original and has some dark subject material that might not be appropriate for children .
summer hours Assayas presents a contemplative etude on the passage of time and the markings of material and spiritual loss . As delicate , even effervescent , as any story about the dissolution of family ties could possibly be . The actors all find the correct notes . It is a French film , and so they are allowed to be adult and intelligent . Lots of films are called haunting , Summer Hours truly is . Summer Hours drags in the middle , but its final scene is almost overpoweringly tender and beautiful , offering a hopeful rejoinder to all the prior scenes of family members shedding their shared legacy . This is a mature film by an accomplished director . A quietly observed Chekhovian drama about the effects of globalization on a French family . ... leisurely paced but intensely gripping film - which does n't lend itself to facile capsulization - follows three generations of a French family as they prepare for the imminent death of their matriarch I think you should see Summer Hours . Summer Hours meanders along as a restrained mood piece , and is quite good and moving in parts , but it 's just plain flat in others . 	Olivier Assayas ' contemplative family drama handles lofty ideas about art and culture with elegance and lightness .
mission impossible ghost protocol Possesses the requisite number of expertly choreographed how'd-they-do-that scenes , as well as some terrific supporting performances from `` Mission : Impossible '' veterans and newcomers . It 's not the generic plot that 's so memorable , even though its convolutions are clever enough , or the cast of mostly interesting characters , but the surreal swirl of form and color that frequently fills the enormous screen . What we 're looking at here is basically a delivery system for action set-pieces , and boy howdy , this one has some doozies . [ Bird ] takes an eye-popping approach to the genre , creating a guilty pleasure romp that balances corny plotting with muscled-up fun . Bird chose to accept the right mission for his leap to live action ... Bird is an interesting choice for the franchise and , as it turns out , a pretty inspired one . Team effort makes 4th Mission fun ( and not too serious ) Hits an action bull's-eye Easily the best of the series , filled with extravagant international locations and fantastical action set-pieces , at least two of which are genuinely jaw-dropping . Mission : Impossible - Ghost Protocol was directed by Brad Bird ( The Incredibles ) , whose first stab at a live-action feature preserves the buzzy exhilaration and carefree absurdity of a cartoon . 	Stylish , fast-paced , and loaded with gripping set pieces , the fourth Mission : Impossible is big-budget popcorn entertainment that really works .
cinderella man The specifics of past-due notices and hunger pains are as important to Howard 's story as the prizefights and the period detail . A grossly manipulative tale of an underdog who comes out on top , but one so skillfully manufactured that it effortlessly -- and pleasurably -- carries you along . We 're in an almost irony-free zone , where everything is exactly as it seems , and no subtexts are available for subtext-fanatics . A movie of great delicacy of feeling ... [ T ] he truth of the story tugs irresistibly at your heart . Crowe has grit and gravitas to spare , and trims his Gladiator and Master and Commander : The Far Side of the World caricatures down to pug-nosed , cauliflower-ear size . ... Giamatti steals every inch of celluloid he can get his hands on ... Crowe 's touching portrayal is instrumental in recruiting the audience 's sympathies from the get-go . If there were ever any doubt that Russell Crowe is the greatest screen actor of his generation , Cinderella Man should put matters to rest . 'The film is ... as rich in Depression-era authenticity as such a picture gets , complete with a palpable air of social decay and personalized despondency . ' An endearing story that will keep you at the edge of your seat , the edge of a cheer , the edge of a tear . 	With grittiness and an evocative sense of time and place , Cinderella Man is a powerful underdog story . And Ron Howard and Russell Crowe prove to be a solid combination .
midnight in paris A sweet and lively story , and a nicely packaged new outing from a past master who has done little more than repeat himself for at least two decades . Nostalgic and achingly beautiful , this is Allen 's best since Husbands And Wives . Midnight in Paris is light , quick and pleasant , the kind of movie that boomers , their parents and their kids will eat up like cheese fondue . A movie that 's loving and wistful and often hysterically funny . It 's the funniest comedy he 's delivered in years . Light , assured , and utterly charming : Woody Allen 's sublime gifts are still intact . Woody Allen 's latest venture takes him into new territory and moving locations has inspired him to deliver one of his strongest premises in years . It 's a charming , fanciful comedy in the vein of `` Bullets over Broadway '' and `` The Purple Rose of Cairo , '' the kind of movie I honestly thought Woody had lost the knack for . But you can never count him out . Maybe if I paid more attention in high school English I 'd get it . A very cute , whimsical idea even if it is not completely developed . 	It may not boast the depth of his classic films , but the sweetly sentimental Midnight in Paris is funny and charming enough to satisfy Woody Allen fans .
broken embraces Entertaining enough with visuals to die for , but definitely not as emotionally rewarding as some of this director 's other recent pictures . Pedro Almodvar is a film-maker so innately talented that even when half-cocked , as he is in Broken Embraces , he can somehow produce a movie that is effortlessly superior to most features . The sure cinematic hand of Pedro Almodvar falters and fumbles here as he attempts to fuse together a melodrama with a thriller plus something of a spiritual journey for his central character , Mateo ... superbly portrayed by Lluis Homar It 's both ridiculous and ridiculously romantic , which is an apt description of a work shaped like a heart and structured like a pretzel . A gift for all scholars writing a thesis on Almodvar . Though , for the rest of us less academically bent , Pedro 's latest is a paean to Hollywood of the '50s , passion , and jealousy , all topics he 's handled with much more wit and panache in the past . Spain 's best-known living director Pedro Almodovar ranks among the modern masters of melodrama -- as he demonstrates once again in Broken Embraces It is an artifact of evanescent love , preserved for the ages , a memento mori of all that is lost , like the films of Rossellini and Almodvar , and like cinema itself . If you somehow were n't already sold on the ridiculous gorgeousness of Penlope Cruz , this should do the trick . One failing in the film is how boring it is to watch Cruz pretend to be a bad actress . The comic movie within a movie , which borrows from Women on the Verge , is n't funny . Pedro Almodovar delivers yet another visually rich and quirky viewing experience with the release of his 17th big screen feature . 	Pedro Almodovar 's fourth film with Penlope Cruz is n't his finest work , but he brings his signature visual brilliance to this noirish tale , and the cast turns in some first-class performances .
the help The film manages to retain a tension that 's often rewarded with a humorous release . It may sometimes be a little too clean around the edges , but do n't be fooled by the light . A chick flick for do-gooders , The Help suffers from a malady common to the discrimination drama : its treatment of inequality is more condescending than the prejudice it aims to remedy . I was drawn into the characters and quite moved , even though all the while I was aware it was a feel-good fable , a story that deals with pain but does n't care to be that painful . A beautiful story , beautifully told . No acting ensemble this year has featured so many awards-caliber performances . Satisfying entertainment that 's going to seem like heaven to those who have had their fill of cowboys , aliens and superheroes . if you get to the end of this movie without tearing up at least once , please check for a pulse ; you might already be dead . We get a fairly typical Hollywood flattening of history , with powerful villains and disenfranchised heroes . The Help is Mississippi-lite . This does n't mean it 's not an entertaining movie : it is quite enjoyable . It just means it avoids authenticity . It irks me when a film deals with issues that are actually important in an unsubtle and sentimenalised way . Shot like an inductee in the Hallmark Hall Of Fame , The Help covers an ugly era in superficial gloss that 's only punctured by the particulars of Mississippi race law or hiring practices that are a mere hairsbreadth away from slavery . 	Though arguably guilty of glossing over its racial themes , The Help rises on the strength of its cast -- particularly Viola Davis , whose performance is powerful enough to carry the film on its own .
doa dead or alive Yuen 's propensity for impossible computer-generated slow-mo combat action wears thin . Pic is so insubstantial that it practically evaporates on screen . Corey Yuen and his writers have adapted their dubiously titled DOA : Dead or Alive from the video game series of the same name -- apparently convinced that the scraps of backstory originally scribbled by the gamers were plenty . There was a time when movies like DOA : Dead or Alive lurked sheepishly at schoolboy height on video store shelves , spines straining to accommodate the charms of their actresses . Let 's hope some special form of punishment awaits the man or woman who came up with the idea of basing movies on video games . Unquestionably brain-dead , but also a great example of unpretentious , second-gear celluloid , generated quickly , cheaply -- and for the fun of it . Call it the Guilty Pleasure of the year for me . Hell , it 's a heck of a lot more entertaining than Charlie 's Angels : Full Throttle . It 's all about as thrilling as watching the countryside whiz by in the car . Charlie 's Angels 3 it ai n't , but big up to director Corey Yuen for crafting a splashy and appropriately trashy fighting flick that chicks can cheer for . DOA might as well stand for `` Dead on Arrival . '' 	With a ridiculous plot and comical acting , checking one 's brain at the door is required before watching DOA : Dead or Alive .
spy who loved me The best combination of japery and seriousness , without descending into the clowning that would be a part of all but one of Moore 's subsequent adventures [ as Bond ] . The best of the Roger Moore Bond films has much to praise . Roger Moore may not be the toughest of the Bonds , and he may not be the wittiest , but he is the smoothest . Un clsico , con espas hermosas , persecuciones submarinas , y el toque de Bond . The film has its moments -- Kiel 's indestructible heavy racks up a good score -- but the rest is desperately weak . It may not be Fleming but it is terrific fun . As the Bond series moved deeper into the 1970s , the emphasis moved away from the inventive scripts that made the best Sean Connery films fine examples of the spy genre and toward the kind of feats of daring and visual spectacle . Overwhelmed with its cartoonish absurdity . With its comic edge , this is one of the better Bonds . As always , story and plastic character are in the service of comic strip parody . 	Though it hints at the absurdity to come in later installments , The Spy Who Loved Me 's sleek style , menacing villains , and sly wit make it the best of the Roger Moore era .
control Control honors its subject 's eternal self-doubt by honing in on that truth and leaving the legend to others . Control is never less than completely engaging . The film is visually mesmerizing . Though it follows the usual biopic formula , Corbijn 's stark , black-and-white widescreen visual scheme restores some of the story 's real power . The monochromatic palette suggests the kitchen-sink heyday of 1960s British cinema ; fittingly , 'Control ' is at its best when it concentrates on the quotidian . Parades so many smart , savvy strategies for avoiding the typical music-bio pablum that it 's particularly dispiriting when the middle and end of the film so dully and incorrigibly embrace those very clichs . Credit the filmmakers for not mythologizing Curtis . However , he just might be a bigger enigma after watching Control . Has some trouble taking off before finally finding its way to a haunting conclusion . A work of art disguised as a rock-star biography , it 's an evocative portrait of an iconic outsider and the place that he tried to transcend . Control seems an honest tribute to a haggard ghost . It 'll inspire many a young viewer looking for tips about the workings of self-torture and famous doom . Somber , sad and compelling . 	Control is a work of art , thanks to its evocative black and white cinematography and sensational performances from Sam Riley and Samantha Morton . Even those not familiar with Joy Division can still appreciate the beauty of the film .
x men 3 the last stand Somewhat clunky Written and directed without a hint of subtlety , it 's filled with enough fast-paced carnage to justify the inevitable 'X-4 . ' The third time is definitely not the charm What a comedown , after the weirdly beautiful things Singer and his technicians did in the first two movies . Perhaps the most surprising aspect of X3 is that it 's curiously boring . Sin llegar al nivel de las anteriores , esta tercera parte entretiene aunque est ms basada en la accin que en sus personajes , rasgo fuerte de la saga . Watching Ratner struggle with his enormous cast makes one appreciate the economy with which Singer established even minor supporting characters . Singer 's touch is missed , but there 's still a lot to enjoy here . The intensity that the director of Rush Hour ( ! ) brings to the Marvel Comics-based mutant saga makes me begin to come around regarding Hollywood 's unlovable wunderkind . It 's kinda lame . There 's slightly more to it than that , but basically , that 's what X-Men : The Last Stand boils down to . 	X-Men : The Last Stand provides plenty of mutant action for fans of the franchise , even if it does so at the expense of its predecessors ' deeper character moments .
x men first class But McAvoy and especially Fassbender do make the film worth seeing . Maybe the more accurate and descriptive title might be X-Men : Special Ed or Remedial Mutant Class so you do n't go in with high expectations . Matthew Vaughn 's new inspired-by-canon film takes L'essence du X and seals it in a petri dish with cells from 1960s adventure pictures . In Matthew Vaughn 's pitch-perfect , fluid , sparklingly edited movie , we learn about demons . And would n't you know it ? It 's all about Jewish revenge . A dark and emotionally complex movie for grownups , this prequel to the Marvel Comics X-Men franchise is exactly what its title suffix says . This grandiose globetrotting fantasy boasts plentiful action spectacle and effective character-based drama set in an age of civil unrest and Cold War paranoia . It 's X-Men : Muppet Babies ! As a prequel , X-Men : First Class is fantastic . X-Men : First Class is easily the most entertaining of the five X-Men pics so far . It speaks to the pathos in front of and behind the camera that so much is done with so lethargic a script . Comic-book lovers , fans of alternate history , and fantasy-prone moviegoers in general are all sure to find something to love about X-Men : First Class . It 's intelligent and emotionally resonant , explosive and eye-dazzling . Factor in a zeitgeisty , hot-list cast and First Class is likely to be one of the summer 's best biggies . 	With a strong script , stylish direction , and powerful performances from its well-rounded cast , X-Men : First Class is a welcome return to form for the franchise .
grizzly man Remarkable beauty and wonder A chilling reminder that an outwardly pure and innocent desire to get closer to the wild can easily cross the line into the stupid , the selfish and the downright dangerous . A mesmerizing work of disturbing power and unease . Beautiful and bizarre ... chilling Transcendent and absorbing , depicting our place in the universe with ferocious honesty and unflinching strength . Notable for its depiction of nature as alien and unforgiving , frightening in its cold majesty . Grizzly Man is unlike any nature documentary I 've seen . Werner Herzog forgoes judging Timothy Treadwell 's disputed methods or questionable mental state - letting viewers decide based on footage that suggests Treadwell essentially sought some sort of transmutation from flesh to fur . In Treadwell 's hearbreaking tale , Herzog finds a near-perfect encapsulation of his career-long obsession with investigating man 's thorny relationship with nature . 	Whatever opinion you come to have of the obsessive Treadwell , Herzog has once again found a fascinating subject .
village Shyamalan is on the top of his game for the most part , it 's just the inane ending that drops the film down into mediocrity . When Night Falls There is no doubt that Shyamalan is a gifted director who knows how to push audience buttons , but heavy-handed horror shows like this one make the man behind the camera seems less an artist than a huckster . Shyamalan remains a stilted screenwriter , but Roger Deakins 's cinematography is spooky , creepy , eerie all the way . A high-camp mlange of Bront 's Wuthering Heights and Skinner 's Walden Two , The Village may be the year 's worst film . The Village does n't quite return Shyamalan to the heights of The Sixth Sense . But it 's close enough for discomfort . For those who just want a good scare , rest assured the best ( and worst ) of it comes across as Wait Until Dark meets The Blair Witch Project . Despite her lack of actual sight , Ivy can see people 's `` colors , '' and while she wo n't tell Lucius his color , you might presume it 's not the `` bad '' one . This is bad , amateur work given a superficial veneer of professionalism . It sets a scary sylvan atmosphere but provides few frights and lots of unintentional chuckles . 	The Village is appropriately creepy , but Shyamalan 's signature twist ending disappoints .
eat drink man woman The creatively decorative food presentations upstage the soap opera story . Ang Lee 's two-generational soap opera displays the most elaborate food preparation and the most delectable meals since Like Water for Chocolate . Superb interweaving of the motifs of food and the search for love What makes Lee 's films so engaging is the generosity of spirit that he extends toward all of his characters . Wonderfully seductive , and nicely knowing about all of its characters ' appetites . This is a startlingly superior piece of craftsmanship , with the flavour of life and richness of the script conveyed via uniformly wonderful performances . Serves up a rich gallery of sharply defined characters . But by the end , I felt that Lee had , so to speak , stuck a little too closely to the recipe : His movie is moderately enjoyable in a been-there , done-that sort of way . Ambitious and entertaining . Lee and his fine ensemble of actors will soon enfold you in a journey of delightful twists and turns . And in the end , a family you 'll long remember . 	A richly layered look at the complex interactions between a widowed chef and his daughters , Ang Lee 's generational comedy Eat Drink Man Woman offers filmgoers a tasty cinematic treat .
limits of control Jim Jarmsuch has been responsible for many of the dullest hours ever spent at the movies . His new The Limits of Control is no different . ... a torturous , boring , nonsensical monotony . The fun here is in the experience of simply watching and listening , each of equal importance . [ The shots in The Limits of Control are ] beautiful to look at , but it all goes nowhere in a movie that 's all simulacra -- all form and theory with no substance , like a shiny disco ball that reflects everything but is still empty inside . This shallow conundrum is at once a dull thriller and a humourless comedy , the sort of colossally self-indulgent and boring film that only a successful and revered director could make - or be allowed to make . Every time something seems to be happening , Jarmusch tips us gently back into sleep mode . It 's enough to make you long for a sip of one of the countless espressos the nameless man enjoys . The eerie displacement of being at large in alien territory is the guiding emotion in Jarmusch 's movies , and in none more so than this one . THE maddeningly enigmatic Limits of Control , the new film by the minimalist director Jim Jarmusch , tackles the sort of subject that is usually the basis for a tasty thriller -- the odyssey of a hired assassin -- and strips it of almost everything that usu Paint drying . Photosynthesis . Rush-hour traffic . All these activities would be more entertaining to watch -- and probably speedier -- than Jim Jarmusch 's The Limits of Control . It 's a film , Jim , but not as we know it : a meandering bad trip through a gorgeously shot Spain that 's really only accessible to tenacious Jarmusch enthusiasts . 	A minimalist exercise in not much of anything , The Limits of Control is a tedious viewing experience with little reward .
epic movie The real problem with Epic Movie is that while it does a decent job imitating films , it never bothers to make fun of or have fun with them . It could be worse , but that 's not saying much . At times there is no visible difference between this and the fictitious film *** , the two-hour , single-take , Academy Award-winning shot of a flatulent gluteus maximus from Mike Judge 's Idiocracy . Friedberg and Seltzer are completely tone-deaf when it comes to the art of film parody , conjuring none of the adolescent brilliance of Airplane ! or even the good-natured irony of 2001 's Not Another Teen Movie . None of it makes much sense and none of its funny , and to see such truly talented performers like Coolidge , Willard and Kid-in-the-Hall Kevin McDonald , who appears briefly as a seedy , middle-aged Harry Potter , is merely depressing . Everything you loved about the past couple of years ' blockbusters , only much less entertaining and with a lot more urination . The latest spoof from knucklehead screenwriting team and first-time directors Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer . too simple , too vulgar and too obvious to be Funny Movie . It 's not even Chuckle Movie or Giggle Movie . It 's in your face , with most humor centered around taking characters you recognize and just making them dumber The cinematic equivalent of a tapeworm , this delivers few laughs beyond the initial chuckles of recognition . Maybe these movies are popular , but it seems they just keep getting more inane with each variation on the theme . 	A crude comedy with nothing new or insightful to say about the subjects it satirizes .
soul surfer A by-the-numbers biopic about young surfer Bethany Hamilton . Bethany 's determination and faith are remarkable . It 's too bad this movie made a brave young woman 's life appear like an unremarkable soap opera . It 's a compelling tale of surf and survival . Hamilton is played , blandly , by Anna Sophia Robb , and her devoted parents , less bland , are played by Dennis Quaid and Helen Hunt . The surfing footage , much of it shot off the coast of Kauai , is not bland at all . Faith-based ... With its sports-movie structure and Hollywood production values , Soul Surfer is a creditable crossover picture ; it just could 've done with more nuance . [ Blu-ray ] This is an inspirational sports drama stuffed full of Christian values and CGI that draws the eye in ways both good and bad . There are good stories and there are good movies . Soul Surfer is a good story . This would have made a better documentary than a live-action re-creation . Still , 'Soul Surfer , ' despite its flaws , tells the real-life inspirational story of Bethany Hamilton , a professional surfer who lost her arm in a shark attack . It 's clear that Quaid learned nothing from Jaws 3 . Somewhere not far beneath the glossy pop skin of Soul Surfer , the true story of Bethany Hamilton is struggling to get out . 	There 's an amazing true story at the heart of Soul Surfer -- and unfortunately , it 's drowned by waves of Hollywood cheese .
room 237 2012 I do n't necessarily buy any of these alternate readings , but the passion these people bring to their theories is such that you 're at least willing to meet them halfway . Room 237 is an extremely fascinating film to watch whether you believe it or not . The thrill 's in the thinking about little pieces of cinematic language as words contributing to a two-hour essay . The beauty of Room 237 , however , does n't lie in the validity of any one of the commentators ' thoughtful ( and occasionally well-informed ) speculations , but instead in that mysterious grey zone between an artist 's intentions and audience interpretation . A celebration of Kubrick , filmmaking and fandom . A must see for any fan of The Shining The rapturous responses seem over-the-top for this modest , entertaining , visually clever film . The fun is arguing with its subjects ' looney theories ; rewatch The Shining first . A beautifully edited , deeply strange compendium of what different people have read into a single film . A diverting excursion for lovers of Kubrick 's films ... even if , at over a hundred minutes , it does go on a bit long . As amusing as the movie is , I think in the end that Ascher misses the labyrinth for the trees . It works like a Kubrickian Da Vinci Code , and it lures you into seeing The Shining as a kind of feature-length Zapruder film . 	Mysterious and provocative , Room 237 is a fascinating journey into the world of obsessive cinephilles .
eight men out Men Out plays like an American Gothic , sowing the seeds of wrath . Sayles 's best film . It 's a sad and compelling piece that is totally convincing and does n't require a knowledge of baseball . If John Sayles were a ballplayer , they 'd call him Lefty -- not for his pitching arm but for his politics . The devoutly liberal filmmaker 's political point of view is certain . It 's his dramatic focus that sometimes gets fuzzy . Given the inevitably knotty plotting , the message is oddly unrevealing , although the film features more than enough intelligently , wittily scripted moments to remain a fascinating insight into a crucial episode in the souring of that old American Dream . [ Sayles ] makes the audience an expert on the era and the incident . Sayles not only depicts the circumstances that led to the fix ( most notably Sox owner Charles Comiskey 's legendary tightfistedness ) , but he also re-creates the games in great detail , making the best possible use of an athletic cast . One of the best sports movies of all time . It 's an insider 's movie , a baseball expert 's film that is hard for the untutored to follow . Perhaps the saddest chapter in the annals of professional American sports is recounted in absorbing fashion in Eight Men Out . 	Perhaps less than absorbing for non-baseball fans , but nevertheless underpinned by strong performances from the cast and John Sayles ' solid direction .
1193743-step brothers ... Seems to have never evolved beyond the basic concept stage . ... surpreendente que , em meio a tanta estupidez , o filme seja realmente engraado e consiga criar dois personagens to carismticos , chegando a incluir , aqui e ali , momentos que , de uma forma sutil , se revelam tocantes . This one 's strictly for Ferrell , McKay , and Reilly -- and for those of us who really , really like them . Painful to watch , this Will Ferrell vehicle is crude , infantile and unfunny as it hovers around its one-tone premise in which two grown men behave like kids % u2013 and vile ones at that Ticking away just beneath Step Brothers ' freely associative surface is a fairly astute commentary on how we define such abstract concepts as 'growing up ' and 'making something of yourself . ' Thank god that when he became a man , Will Ferrell never put away childish things . His Step Brothers is so childish it seems to arrive in diapers , and that 's not bad ; it 's good . There 's enough inventive hairy chested Peter Pan pretend preteen malice and ballsy kid impersonation , to sustain the laughs for the duration . Think Superbad with ample doses of talking dirty sibling revelry . Dude , the film so totally happens to be great . With a few tweaks , the picture could have actually been about 12-year-old step-brothers , and been better for it . Ferrell and Reilly do the man-child thing again , only this time it 's R-rated and not quite as funny . 	The relentless immaturity of the humor is not a total handicap for this film , which features the consistently well-matched talents of Will Ferrell and John C. Reilly .
1155470-date movie Its plot is thin , its characters are undeveloped , and its acting is Hiltonesque . But the biggest problem with Date Movie is that it just ai n't that funny . It might make you laugh . Just do n't go if you want to think . You could really hurt yourself . Date Movie is stupefyingly unfunny in its attempts to mock romantic comedies , celebrities , reality TV shows and anything else that pops into the heads of its creators . far less smart and often less funny than the films it ridicules . Like the worst blind date you ever had A lame pastiche of Hollywood romances . There 's not a single laugh to be had . Having Oprah scold you while a dentist performs a root canal on you with no Novocain on live national television would be more fun than sitting through this . The whole thing unravels like a long night of Trivial Pursuit . Date Movie has a nascent sense of the absurd but does n't know what to do with it . 	In an attempt to parody rom-com cliches , Date Movie ultimately makes a mockery of itself , with juvenile toilet humor and empty pop culture references .
last chance harvey Sure , it 's predictable at times , and maybe even a little sappy , but overall it 's a sweet movie about genuine human emotion . Last Chance Harvey is nothing you have n't seen before . It 's just done with older actors , a bit more poignancy , and a bit more class Last Chance Harvey simultaneously functions as a valentine to the city [ of London ] and an intensely personal character study You ca n't take a script flimsy enough for a Kate Hudson and Matthew McConaughey vehicle and expect a couple of real thoroughbreds like Thompson and Hoffman not to shred it to pieces . Watching them dance effortlessly through this film is a reminder that two actors at the absolute top of their game can weave magic even in a slightly predictable example of a wholly formulaic genre . Falling in love has never been so dull . Nothing earth-shaking happens in Last Chance Harvey . It 's just a chance to see two really great actors deliver a middle-age love story . The romantic chemistry that flows between the two great leads is worth the price of admission . Sometimes it 's nice to be reminded that romance is n't only for the young . ... it 's a pleasure to see mature portraits of adult characters who put their vulnerabilities on the line . 	Last Chance Harvey is an above-average story that graduates to potent romantic drama based on the chemistry and charm of its top-notch performers .
adventureland Clearly , writer/director Greg Mottola has plenty of good ideas and an inclination toward quirky movies just slightly off-centre . Without recourse to frilly cuffs or a montage to A Flock Of Seagulls ' greatest hit , it plays the '80s card for something heartfelt . Like its models , this is funny , smart , and complacent . Adventureland earns its edge-of-adulthood sweetness and has characters with real hearts under their goofy T-shirts . Adventureland would love to be `` this generation 's Ferris Bueller '' . But if you set your teen movie an entire generation ago , it 's not going to be this generation 's anything . Instead it 's going to be a challenge-free nostalgia binge - at best . A worthy effort , several cuts above the teen comedies that came out of the era it depicts while managing to capture it thoroughly . Much like its anti-hero , Adventureland is at first too gauchely intelligent for its surroundings , then learns to merge the best of what it is and what it is n't . Gentle is the new gross , it seems . Its strength lies in the power of its characters , each of whom is flawed but also very compelling . It proves Mottola has a sweet sensibility for intimate grins , as well as broad yuks . With Adventureland , Mottola is using some of the stock from his Superbad triumph to make the kind of personal film he should be making , that he probably would have liked to have made in the years following Daytrippers . 	Full of humor and nostalgia , Adventureland is a sweet , insightful coming-of-age comedy that will resonate with teens and adults alike .
firehouse dog Most of the film sits firmly in a comfort zone of fart jokes and dogs doing cool tricks . Nothing says `` family film '' like a doggie foursome ! This larger-than-life cartoon of a trained dog has more character than the two-legged co-stars . Despite a clunky start ( and pedestrian filmmaking ) the story has enough humour and heroics to amuse viewers of any age . throws most of its well-chewed bones to the youngest of patrons and treats ticket-purchasing parents like hydrants . The strong performances and sharp dialog more than make up for some corny effects . There were plenty of fart jokes and dog burps to make my kids laugh . A likable but ungainly mutt of a movie . [ The dog ] looks like a cross between a rat and a llama . And he burps , farts , and even poops on dinner . It 's harmless enough for young kids , but director Todd Holland seems to have little interest in making anything but a generic , instantly forgettable family-friendly feature . 	Firehouse Dog 's cute premise is ruined with endless fart and poop jokes , and an overlong run time .
for-colored-girls-who-have-considered-suicide-when-the-rainbow-is-enuf The film is repetitive , monotonous and , like its source 's title , goes on way too long . Saying that For Colored Girls is the most disciplined , least clownish film that Tyler Perry has made is faint praise indeed . And that 's how it 's meant . Hovering between theater and cinema , sociology and melodrama , poetry and narrative , Perry 's version of the noted play lacks subtlety , seldom finding the right tone to stir emotions through the the women 's monologues . Once again , favoring melodrama over reality , Perry overextends his bounds and delivers a poorly filmed series of worst-case scenarios elevated to tolerable heights by a fantastic cast . Monologues and melodrama rarely work in contemporary movies exploring social ills . And yet the film remains strangely watchable , even when it 's gone bonkers . Especially when it 's gone bonkers . [ F ] inally , Perry has made a film that does n't pander , that has something meaningful to say -- something actually worth hearing -- and that is more than merely watchable ... A veritable who's-who of A-list African-American actresses ( Janet Jackson , Whoopi Goldberg ) populates For Colored Girls , and their performances keep this highly theatrical script from suffocating the big screen . Tyler Perry 's ambitious adaptation charts the black female experience in America and tackles the big issues : rape , infidelity , murder , mental illness , loneliness . The film is a mawkish mess , only occasionally alleviated by the performances or Shange 's poetry . 	Tyler Perry has assembled a fine cast for this adaptation of the 1975 play , and his heart is obviously in the right place , but his fondness for melodrama cheapens a meaningful story .
1018891-short circuit Ideal for kids . It 's basically a kid 's movie , and quite possibly the kids will like it . But they 'll have to be fairly young kids . No movie with Austin Pendleton can be all bad , but this one makes a game try . Amiable enough , but ... A message film to please all ages . Goofy 80 's fun . Wanna-be E.T . actually delivers the goods . Short Circuit may prove a summer hit for all the wrong reasons : It aspires to be no more than a recycled remembrance of films past . A movie for kids of all ages , with enough pace and effects to amuse the youngsters and humour plus message to engage adults . Stars funny , sympathetic robot . One of the stranger ironies to be found in Hollywood these days is that some of its most resourceful directors use high-tech wizardry and state-of- the-art movie technology to make films that rail against the tyranny of science . 	Amiable and good-natured but also shallow and predictable , Short Circuit is hardly as deep or emotionally resonant as E.T . -- though Johnny Five makes for a charming robot protagonist .
human centipede The problem is that this slick piece of schlock is dull , risible and , ultimately , boring . Basically an unremarkable innocents-captured-by-maniac thriller that happens to have one perverse idea as its central gimmick . It scales the heights of yuckiness . It places a flag on a hitherto undreamt-of Everest-peak of offensiveness . For better or worse , it delivers exactly ( and only ) what its title implies . A film that , in bare description , sounds like the greatest outrage ever put to screen , but ends up being fairly tedious when watched . I expected the film to be [ R rated ] B grade horror litter , but its conceit rises above the expectations , as does its technically polished execution and the dramatic seriousness of purpose The evocative title , the lack of motive and the absence of genre tropes are completely intentional -- Six is giving us what we want , reminding us all the while that getting exactly what we want is usually the last thing we should ever really have . This horror show from Dutch director Tom Six will be heaven for devotees of four-star torture porn and zero-star hell for everyone else . The Human Centipede ( First Sequence ) is one of those movies that 's much more entertaining to talk about than it is to actually experience . Deep down it 's just more torture porn with an artistic gloss ... 	Grotesque , visceral and hard to ( ahem ) swallow , this surgical horror does n't quite earn its stripes because the gross-outs overwhelm and devalue everything else .
amelie Irresistibly endearing , with a visual verve all its own . Amelie is filled with memorable characters brought to life by a terrific cast , and nobody is better than [ Audrey ] Tautou , the radiant beauty in the title role . The world of Amelie has no politics . It has no issues . It only has an exaggerated sense of quirkiness and a pea-green tint that suggests an overblown sense of nostalgia for childhood . Adorable beyond belief , [ Audrey Tatou ] wins our hearts with a performance that could comfortably exist in silent cinema . One leaves the theater thinking , as so many Americans of past generations have , 'Ah , there 's always Paris . ' And there will always be Amelie , too . The result is hip nostalgia , a postmodern fairy tale in which faith is replaced by predestination or simple luck , and the universe proves , against all odds , to be a place of kindness and abiding love . I like my films to be more intellectual and less like French pastry . Audrey Toutou is incredible . Tautou is a remarkable young actress . Her wide-eyed , gamine look , reminiscent of a young Audrey Hepburn or Leslie Caron , gives Amelie an innocence and vulnerability that is so essential to make the story work . One of the year 's best , with crossover potential along the lines of Cyrano De Bergerac and Il Postino . Given its quirky heart , it might well surpass them all . 	The feel-good Amelie is a lively , fanciful charmer , showcasing Audrey Tautou as its delightful heroine .
talladega nights the ballad of ricky bobby Ferrell has the doughy indolence of the dimwits he often plays , but you can see in his eyes that he 's always looking for the joke . Well , if you liked Anchorman : The Legend of Ron Burgundy , you 'll probably love Talladega Nights : The Ballad of Ricky Bobby . I did not like Anchorman . This Will Ferrell vehicle ... is essentially chucking javelins at good ol ' American redneckery . Will Ferrell as a NASCAR driver ? You just do n't get any funnier than that . Whilst many times it goes for the obvious and is often inconsistent , moments of inspired genius often yield hilarity Simultaneously teasing and loving a subject does n't make for easy comedy , but writer-star Will Ferrell and director/co-writer Adam McKay pull it off with good-ol'-boy good nature in Talladega Nights : The Ballad of Ricky Bobby . This mildly crude yet oddly tame tale about a NASCAR hotshot who burns rubber to the top of the pole before having a speedway blowout runs on underinflated tires . As ballads tend to be , this one was at times , slow and annoying , but it is worth the watch . When the crazy comes , it 's pretty good crazy . Ferrell has surrounded himself with outstanding co-stars , including John C. Reilly , Amy Adams , Michael Clarke Duncan , Jane Lynch and Gary Cole . Each of them carries on as if this is the movie they 've waited a lifetime to make ... 	Though it occasionally stalls , Talladega Nights ' mix of satire , clever gags , and excellent ensemble performances put it squarely in the winner 's circle .
timecode Audacious and groundbreaking . A big pretentious joke . What Time Code perhaps proves most of all is that the digital filmmaking revolution means absolutely nothing without an old-fashioned , compelling story to hang it on . a fascinating introduction to innovative film technique Most movies offer carefully calibrated insults to the intelligence . This one just might make you smarter . Time Code seems to be one of those instant cult movies . Non-cult-members are likely to end up with confusion and possible eye strain . Surprisingly breezy to watch , because Figgis smashingly manipulates sound to focus our attention from one place to another . Four times better than most multiplex fare . A triumph of style and technological innovation , but a failure in terms of storytelling . The screen is filled by 28 actors , some familiar and some not , but all of them effective . 	Not much of a story , but the execution is interesting .
1144992-crash [ Crash ] is familiar enough that it slips easily into our film-watching faculty without any fuss , yet [ Haggis ' ] handling of it -- his muscular belief in what he is doing -- makes us hope that his next screenplay will be a bit less safe . Believe it or not , this is a lot like `` Pooh 's Heffalump Movie . '' It 's just that the demographic age of the audience is vastly different . The theme is racism . Let me say that again : The theme is racism . I could say it 500 more times because that 's how many times the movie says it , in every single scene . [ Crash ] is sharply observed and frequently extremely funny as well as artfully orchestrated . Film constructed of wild coincidences . A throwback to stodgy liberal melodrama of the 1960s like `` Guess Who 's Coming to Dinner '' . Says zero about the social and economic realities of LA that breed racism . Any relation to persons living or dead is purely coincidental . Its emotional lows and wicked below-the-belt punches make it a soul-searching film , a manipulative movie with a lot of stars and a writer-director staying on message throughout : We need to know each other better than this . occasionally too willing to rely on convenience ... ( but ) full of provocative ideas , shocking moments and wholly believable performances ... Crash has been crafted to deliver a wake-up blow to our complacency . Lop off a few characters , tighten the narrative geometry , and Crash might have a sledgehammer impact . As it is , the film is content to tap you on the shoulder and ask you to take a look around . 	A raw and unsettling morality piece on modern angst and urban disconnect , Crash examines the dangers of bigotry and xenophobia in the lives of interconnected Angelenos .
apollo 13 It chronicles one of the most dramatic of all spaceflights , an American catastrophe that became an American victory , and it does this in a way that 's so authentic , so brilliant in its technical details , that it succeeds in putting us on that ship . The story is incredible . The kind of history lesson that you would n't mind seeing again and again , no matter the format . The film succeeds brilliantly at organizing great gobs of information into powerful drama . Ron Howard 's pop-entertainment you-are-there space thriller is easily the most rousing film of the year . And it might make real spaceflight just as nifty as Star Wars for youngsters . Apollo 13 avoids becoming propaganda , or a masturbatory industrial film for NASA , by focusing on the story 's human element . This engrossing account of the nation 's most perilous moon shot embodies what many people consider to be old-fashioned American virtues in a virtually pristine state . What compensates for this predictable plot is the professionalism with which it 's told , turning a minor piece of 1970s history into an engaging yarn with equal quantities of special-effects wizardry and human feeling . New technology was used for the space program and , appropriately enough , new IMAX technology enlarges the experience . Partially filmed in genuine weightless conditions , Ron Howard 's movie is a technical tour de force . 	In recreating the troubled space mission , Apollo 13 pulls no punches : it 's a masterfully told drama from director Ron Howard , bolstered by an ensemble of solid performances .
couples retreat The only way to look at Couples Retreat as a bookend to Swingers is to note how far these two talented stars have fallen . The actresses are so wasted , they 're even demoted to fifth , sixth , seventh and eighth billing under every one of the dudes . At least the guys are n't having fun either . The film maintains a sufficiently pleasant comic vibe as the couples bicker and pick away at each other , but director Peter Billingsley never really brings matters to a satisfying boil . Although co-written by Vince Vaughn & Jon Favreau , their magic of past is scantly seen . Why could n't Couples Retreat have been lighthearted and zany throughout , instead of trying to push across a message about picket-fence monogamy ? Enjoy the stunning South Pacific views , but do n't expect some enchanted evening . Earnest , not particularly funny , and ultimately unforgivably sentimental . Somewhere along the way someone forgot humour . Fewer laughs than the average episode of ITV 's Benidorm . Trouble in paradise . That 's the overly familiar premise of this sun-poisoned comedy . Ever go on a vacation where most of the people around seem to be having more fun than you ? Then you already know what it 'll feel like to visit Couples Retreat . 	Despite a talented cast and some reliably pleasant interplay between Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn , Couples Retreat leaves viewers stranded in an arid , mirthless comedy .
basic instinct 2 While there was little doubt that the sequel would be the awful movie that it is , BI2 compounds the injury by , basically , taking forever to get to what little good , lurid stuff anyone coming to the movie wants to see . Basic Instinct 2 is more elaborately plotted than the original , and the result is even worse : horribly over-the-top dialogue , gratuitous nudity and no suspense whatsoever . Basic Instinct 2 is an obvious attempt to revive a stalled acting career . Like many sequels this is actually a remake , and it suffers from the law of diminishing returns . In the end , this is a movie that makes the original Basic Instinct look good . And in a way , that 's quite a feat . Trust your basic instinct and avoid the worst sequel since Staying Alive . Instead of moving like an enchanting vision of lust , Stone stomps through every scene with the subtlety of a Clydesdale , and her hair looks like it was stolen off a Raggedy Ann doll The plot , already mired in nonsensical backstory , collapses with the late-inning introduction of a tired metafictional device ( not to mention a wildly lunging Usual Suspects twist ) . What Basic Instinct 2 is missing , besides any of the trashy good fun of the original , is a subtitle . Here 's a suggestion : A Girl 's Guide to Dressing for Her Shrink . For all the sex and slicing , the most shocking thing about it is how dreary it is . 	Unable to match the suspense and titilation of its predecessor , Basic Instinct 2 boasts a plot so ludicrous and predictable it borders on `` so-bad-it's-good . ''
senna As well as being a great driver , Senna also comes across as being a big personality and a man who showed his emotions . Kapadia fosters a distinct 'you are there ' feeling for the races by composing his visual storytelling entirely of vintage footage , mostly derived from the Formula One archives . There are aspects of Senna 's life that are left untouched here but that is a small reservation about such a dynamic and captivating documentary . You do n't have to be a Formula 1 nut to enjoy this enthralling documentary ... Asif Kapadia 's film Senna is so skillfully put together that its portrayal of a complex , charismatic and fascinating figure will grip even those with no interest in the sport . Kapadia expertly contrasts episodes of adrenaline-rush speed with moments of reflective slow motion to capture the addictive thrill and danger of the sport , as well as the personal values of the humble , spiritual sportsman . Flawed and reluctant to dig too deep , but also a lyrical , haunting and nerve-wracking portrait : the thinking man 's true-life Top Gun ( with cars ) . This may not be the most innovative documentary , nor the most probing ( it fails to mention Senna 's marriage or ex-fiancee ) , but it is intelligently assembled and avoids hagiography . ... an acutely felt and emotional movie , an exceptional personal portrait ... also a sad reminder of just what the stakes are for these guys each and every time they get behind the wheel . Though the film seemingly had a good ambassador for the sport , astounding racing footage and was well-presented , the subject matter never fully engaged me . In short , this is a brilliant , intimate , compelling film about Senna , but it 's not the whole story . 	Even for filmgoers who are n't racing fans , Senna offers heart-pounding thrills -- and heartbreaking emotion .
fly away home A lovely and unjustly forgotten family film . Beautiful looking and well acted , but lacking in the kind of tension that marks a well-told tale . A great adventure made all the more enjoyable because it is based on a true story . The tender beauty of Carroll Ballard 's ''Fly Away Home '' goes well beyond what might be expected from a movie about things that hatch . From bumbling infants to majestic adults , a flock has n't been this charismatic onscreen since Hitchcock went bird-watching . It 's a genuine delight and a definite thumbs aloft for kids of about six upwards . Daniels , in a scruffy beard and wearing the apologetic look of a divorced dad who has n't visited his kid enough , has n't been this good in a long time . The predictability of all this might be more palatable if the characters were better developed or more appealing . Story of a girl and her geese is complex entertainment for kids and grown-ups . The dynamic between Daniels ' vigorous , if self-involved , artist father and Paquin 's initially sullen , eventually self-discovering teenager is warmly and believably conveyed , with both thesps doing strongly individualistic work . 	Well-acted and beautifully filmed , Fly Away Home offers heartwarming entertainment for moviegoers of all ages .
lethal weapon A pistol-packing , snap-crackling blow-out . [ Gibson and Glover ] make a great team , and some of their early adventures are exciting . But the film runs out of gas as it turns into an extended chase sequence . Undeniably one of the best 80s action flicks , next to Commando and Die Hard . ... Lethal Weapon remains one of those rare 1980s action films that passed the test of time . The best in an overrated series thanks to Gibson 's intense performance as a suicidal cop . Gibson is truly frightening as the cop about to go into orbit , and Glover is a standout as the down-to-earth lawman with very much to lose . Empty glitz in search of a style . Implausibility is a large part of the entertainment in this romp par excellence , with each overblown set piece becoming ever more ludicrous . [ VIDEO ESSAY ] Screenwriter Shane Black 's approach to creating unconventional characters for `` Lethal Weapon '' created a new template for the buddy movie genre , which dates back to the silent era of Laurel and Hardy . Still remarkably entertaining . 	The most successful installment in a phenomenally successful series , Lethal Weapon helped redefine action movies for the 1980s and 1990s .
1078955-game The rocky blur between reality and fantasy aspires to be a Hitchcockian After Hours , but at two hours plus , The Game gets played out early on . Once again , Fincher settles for artifice over art . This is one of those movies that 's so tightly written and densely plotted , it leaves no room for error -- or viewer queries . Unfortunately , the questions will start flying even before the picture 's over . The Game is an intensely exciting puzzle-gimmick thriller , the kind of movie that lets you know from the start that it 's slyly aware of its own absurdity ( which is why it can then get away with it ) . [ N ] ifty filmic style and crackpot sensibility . We are drawn into the maze , and while we are emotionally caught up in some of the more violent action sequences , we simultaneously use our gray matter to try to figure what it 's all about . The Game is the best movie to mess with your mind since The Usual Suspects . This 1997 thriller is fairly entertaining nonsense if all you 're looking for is 128 minutes of diversion . But if you 'd like something more from David Fincher , the director of Seven , do n't get your hopes up . Good looking , tightly controlled thriller . An exhilarating ride that prepares the ground for Fight Club . David Fincher directs this claustrophobic thriller with visceral punch and stylistic vitality . 	The ending could use a little work but this is otherwise another sterling example of David Fincher 's iron grip on atmosphere and storytelling .
thirteen ghosts Brutally violent horror remake is a huge waste . What 's worse than being trapped in a house with an angry ghost ? Trapped in a house with 13 of them . But the real shocker here is that `` 13 Ghosts '' is surprisingly decent . The film 's biggest letdown is the almost complete absence of real scares . Thrown together without any semblance of directing talent . A high-budget spectacle of garish overkill . Thirteen Ghosts is so bad it scared me more than the Evil Dead knock off ghouls . You do n't like to see someone like F. Murray Abraham awkwardly hamming his way through a role . It 's actually pretty sad . Substitutes the original 's goofy camp for an orgy of gore , noise and mindless mayhem . It 's junk , too , and while maybe it 's not as much fun as the original , neither does it disgrace its parent . A more fitting tribute to William Castle would have been to create a horror flick you could sit through without consistently squirming in abject loathing . 	The production design is first rate , but 13 Ghosts is distinctly lacking in scares .
less than zero Meant to be a statement against the amoral lifestyle of super-rich youth , it misses the mark by a mile . Bret Easton Ellis 's novel is fairly faithfully into a portrait of strung out teenage yuppies in LA during the late 80s . Loosely based on the novel by Bret Easton Ellis , Less Than Zero refuses to take the risks necessary to capture the keen social observation of the book . The anti-teen film that really kicks ass The only saving grace of this exercise in futility is the suitably louche performance by Spader as drug-dealer Rip . It may not be the most realistic portrayal of drug addiction ever produced , but it 's certainly worth seeing - if for nothing else than Downey 's superlative performance . Has style to spare , but none of the novel 's shock value a bit of a mess A startling tale of alienation and self-destruction . Put Downey on the map , at least for a while . Ed Lachman 's cinematography is letter perfect as always in its handling of light and color ( assisted here by Barbara Ling 's flashy production design ) , but it 's a pity to see it wasted on such claptrap . 	A couple of standout performances -- notably Robert Downey , Jr. and James Spader -- and a killer soundtrack ca n't quite elevate a somewhat superficial adaptation of Bret Easton Ellis ' story of drugged-out LA rich kids .
rush hour 2 Better than its predecessor , and that goes for everything from the fight scenes to Chan 's grasp of English . For fans of the still-youthful franchise , this movie 's going to hit the spot . Check your brain in at the door and enjoy the action and comedy . Chan does his thing ; Tucker does his , and everyone who buys a ticket gets exactly what they paid to see . The whole thing seems tired and the script is downright offensive at points . Pure buddy-cop formula and generally well-staged and entertaining . Less compelling than the first , but fun for fans . Where fools rush in . Chan has surprisingly little to do -- fewer action sequences than usual and even less dialogue to wrestle with . The whole film plays like an outtake , and that I do mean as a compliment . 	Rush Hour 2 does n't feel as fresh or funny as the first , and the stunts lack some of the intricacy normally seen in Chan 's films .
sin city ... a gleaming pop revelation , a completely realized vision ... While this plunge into darkness is in the soul of film noir , there is something completely false and silly about the overlay of morality , which seems enslaved by macho masochism . Be prepared to shut your eyes through some of it , but the rest of it is a wild ride . See with your eyes and Sin City may knock them out . See through them , however , and you 'll see how empty these shadowy streets truly are . Sin City is a lot of things , but most of all , it 's fun . It may not be for everyone , but everyone should see it once anyway , just to find out if it 's for them . One hell of a great movie . A worthwhile piece of eye candy . It 's a world with its own moral formulation , one that confounds our notions of good and evil , strips them of their conventional meaning , reduces them to the bare essentials . Sin City , Robert Rodreguez 's visionary , wildly imaginative pulp noir , based on Frank Miller 's graphic novels is his most accomplished and flamboyant film to date . Expands the geography of Hollywood 's junky anti-aesthetic ... There are a million stories in Rodriguez 's hellish , half-naked city , and all of them stink to high heaven . 	Visually groundbreaking and terrifically violent , Sin City brings the dark world of Frank Miller 's graphic novel to vivid life .
john tucker must die John Tucker Must Die is n't half bad . It 's about two-fifths bad , mostly toward the incoherent ending , but that ratio is ... well , not bad . The film 's sheer technical ineptitude seems almost intentional , bordering on avant-garde expressiveness . If one is interested in seeing everything that 's wrong with movies today -- from cynical marketing to the creative poverty of contemporary screenwriting -- Tucker provides one-stop shopping . In the typical vein of high school teen movies full of joie de vivre , John Tucker Must Die is unadulterated fluff . Derivative but somewhat amusing . The performers are a bright bunch . John Tucker Must Die will undoubtedly fade into obscurity like so many silly and sentimental teen comedies before it . It 's no wonder that the genre has turned to sex with apple pies and the like in an effort to distinguish itself . ... a dispiriting revenge fantasy engineered by three waspish Barbies against one disposable Ken . very slight ... predictable Criticizing a summer teen movie for not being high art is like yelling at a sociopath for being a serial killer . Ca n't make up its mind whether to be Mean Girls or Sixteen Candles , opting instead for a mixture of the two that does n't really gel . 	This derivitive teen comedy tries to go for cute when it could use more bite .
hannibal rising Newcomer Gaspard Ulliel impresses as Lecter , displaying for us a young man losing his humanity and increasing his hatred by degrees . Might be enough to give viewers some vicarious thrills , but it 's a little disconcerting for me to see Hannibal Lecter becoming less dimensional with each new movie . Well , it did n't stink . It was n't great , either , but neither were Hannibal or Red Dragon , to be honest . Director Peter Webber clearly wants Hannibal Rising to be a class production . Unfortunately , he makes the whole affair too artsy and staid for its own good , which results in a plodding pace that induces more eyelid drooping than tension . Viewers deserve more , as does the legacy of the now laughably ridiculous Lecter . Watching the earnest but under-qualified Ulliel perpetrate Hannibal 's initial grisly slayings is like going back in time to hear the screeches of a violin virtuoso 's incipient swipes on the strings the first time he picks up the instrument . Uma tima fotografia em servio de um roteiro ridculo que se torna ainda mais pattico em funo do pssimo protagonista . ... the film improves substantially once Hannibal embarks on his mission of revenge - with the whole thing morphing into a brutal actioner along the lines of Death Wish and Man on Fire ... This is a footnote rather than a film . As we get a chance to see him as a child and a young man , our curiosity may be satisfied , but the additional detail that humanizes him makes him far less interesting . 	Hannibal Rising reduces the horror icon to a collection of dime-store psychological traits .
little otik An enjoyably absurd bit of Grand Guignol , that often underlines the obvious . Devilishly funny . For those who can embrace and enjoy the preposterous while forgiving the ludicrous , Little Otik may make an entertaining bedtime story . There is an inherent humor to the premise , though there is a concrete desperation at the heart of Little Otik . It 's worth remembering that most of the great surrealist films of the past were a good deal shorter than this . Less is more Jan ! An acquired taste that fans will likely enjoy . a disquiet amalgam of Little Shop of Horrors , Dead Alive , and Raising Arizona , with a splash of the Brothers Quay to push it right over the edge . This is a work of weirdness that would make the Grimm brothers proud ... . The film 's shock storyline soon becomes a dull plod . 127 minutes is a lot of time for a simple movie with one satirical point to make and one animated character to show . 	Though rather overlong , Little Otik is a whimsical , bizarre treat .
wonder boys It 's very refreshing to see a movie that celebrates writing and intelligence without stooping to become a filmed record of a novel . A mid-winter delight -- wry , surprising , bittersweet and not to be missed . Funny and touching . A movie about nobodies , who live in nowheresville , talk about no one and do nothing . Nothing squared . Douglas is exquisitely subtle in this film ; I love it when he takes time out from playing wealthy , power-hungry jerks to craft a real character , and this one is not an easy creation . A film with the courage to do what it wants , safe in the knowledge that its characters are strong , funny , and interesting enough to suck the audience in . Kloves ' adaptation is so faithful , in fact , that even the Alfred Stieglitz portrait of Georgia O'Keeffe hanging over student Hannah Green 's bed -- a throwaway descriptive detail in Chabon 's novel -- turns up in the movie . Through most of the film the very randomness and unpredictability of the plot gives it a realistic tone . Veterans and relative newcomers populate the talented cast , led by Douglas in one of his best-rendered performances to date . Wonder Boys is like a George Cukor movie with a bad head cold -- slow , muffled and vague . 	Michael Douglas and Tobey Maguire do wonders in this clever dark comedy .
1207149-taking of pelham 1 2 3 Because of Scott 's reliably indiscriminant overdirection , the film only works in fits and starts Packed with enough rap music , nauseating camera jerks , speed shifts and freeze frames to almost , so nearly , convince us something interesting is occurring on screen . Set in a nightmare New York City , the subway hostage thriller batters our nerves like a tom-tom . Sometimes it 's refreshing to see a movie that is okay with just being okay . With The Taking of Pelham 1 2 3 , you get a C-student shoe salesman that rarely dazzles but does n't disappoint . The only surprise in the new Pelham is that there 's nothing to replace the narrative ingenuity of the original . In fact , there 's almost no ending at all . Kinetic director Tony Scott balances his need for speed and flash with fleshed-out drama , making Pelham the best of his recent outings . At first it 's exciting , but as the film progresses , that quick-cut , never-stop pacing seems increasingly desperate . There 's plenty of action , but little to get excited about . The commandeered plot is like the film 's train . When you first get on board it just sits on the track . Once the story begins moving , you can predict each stop along the route . Can a director be arrested for the attempted hijack of our emotions ? 	Despite a strong cast , The Taking of Pelham 1 2 3 suffers under the excesses of Tony Scott 's frantic direction , and fails to measure up to the 1974 original .
somethings got ta give its dream cast makes its flaws easy to ignore Someday , Amanda Peet will find a great role in a great film . Not surprisingly , the two exceptional leads work better than the movie that contains them . For a comedy that 's supposed to be about sex and love , it 's amazingly tender and astute about the former and almost downright clunky about the latter . As a valentine to Keaton -- and a rare romantic comedy in which both leads need glasses to see what time it is -- it provides some long-overdue pleasures . The film coasts along smoothly on the charisma of its stars , and if Keaton and Nicholson are n't the hottest screen couple of the year they may be the most convincing . Stumbles in miscalculating how far it needs to go to make this particular romance convincing when , as another romantic comedy character put it , it had us from hello . A conventional , mirth-challenged comedy . Meyers has written a killer story about grown-ups , risk-taking , passion and vulnerability and more or less disguised it all as a romantic comedy . Something 's Got ta Give is exactly the kind of 'adult ' dreck that you 'd expect to see on Broadway . 	Though it occasionally stumbles into sitcom territory , Something 's Got ta Give is mostly a smart , funny romantic comedy , with sharp performances from Jack Nicholson , Diane Keaton , and Keanu Reeves .
titanic An overwhelming cinematic experience which stuns , moves and entertains . Director James Cameron takes one of his most beloved historical incidents and transforms it in to a McDonald 's product ... There 's a lot to like here . It lasts 3 hours , and I was n't bored for a second . This is a fine example of Hollywood filmmaking . This is a studio film in the best sense of the word . A timeless epic that gets me every time ( yes , I needed my own life raft at the screening ) , the power of the storytelling and the performances by Kate Winslet and Leonardo DiCaprio grip throughout . Titanic is a terrific balance of realism and romanticism . Yes , Jack Dawson and Rose DeWitt Bukater are flimsyish characters , but DiCaprio and Winslet still have the formidable challenge as actors to gauge the levels of their performances against the galvanizing visual and technotronic aspects of the film . Exactly what it says on the label : a deliciously overwrought melodramatic love story , capped off with one of the greatest special effects achievements of the 1990s . Two spitting scenes in 3D and Jack Dawson loses his virginity . A second look indicates a cruel streak in the modern epic . 	A mostly unqualified triumph for James Cameron , who offers a dizzying blend of spectacular visuals and old-fashioned melodrama .
begin again 2013 Can a Song Save Your Life ? is overproduced , and more than a little fake . But it carries a sweet , and catchy tune that will likely win you over The film 's quiet pleasures creep up on you . It 's not nearly as good as `` Once '' but still very charming and entertaining . The film 's original title was the not-entirely-rhetorical question Can A Song Save Your Life ? Carney makes it clear that in his opinion , yes , it can . Can a meaningful glance mean as much as a kiss ? In this film , it can , and that 's enough . Can a song save your life ? And can an impossibly mushy , mawkish movie make you feel good ? The answer to the second question , anyway , is yes . Basically , it 's the cinematic equivalent of purchasing an entire album , enjoying the entire thing , but over time realizing that you only care for about half the songs . The trouble with this movie -- aside from its lack of visual wonder and musical shape -- is that you do n't trust its priorities . The result is a film that , while fitting into various great traditions , still bears the unmistakable thumbprint of a singular film-maker . A hugely satisfying ode to entrepreneurial creativity , and a glorious love letter to New York City and the art it inspires . I love this movie so much . 	Writer-director John Carney 's return to musical drama is n't quite as potent as it was with Once , but thanks to charming work from its well-matched leads , Begin Again is difficult to resist .
49 up This seventh installment is utterly fascinating , drawing heavily on footage from the previous movies to follow each child on the journey into middle age . The monumental 7 Up series continues with a lesser but worthwhile chapter , 49 Up . More than a deeply satisfying movie ; it 's a reminder of the wonder contained in ordinary lives . Even those wondering about the gaps and `` missing pieces '' or what will happen in the future will not be disappointed by this remarkable work . There 's a Jesuit saying that goes something like ''Give me the child until he is 7 and I will give you the man . '' 49 Up says , here is the man -- and behold , he is a grandfather , too . Now , they are middle-aged , and ( unfair to spoil small surprises here ) embedded in life with some learned wisdom . I 'll wait breathlessly for 56 Up , and hope this brave group will speak to the camera again ; giving us the gift of a share in their lives . Apted deserves much credit for the patience he 's demonstrated in documenting more than a dozen seemingly normal lives through the end of the 20th century and into the 21st . 49 Up marks the latest chapter in one of the most ambitious documentary projects in movie history . Make that the history of any medium , for how often do we get to witness a time-lapse study of human life ? The latest chapter in Michael Apted 's documentary series shows that at 49 , lives reveal more about marriage and the life cycle than about class . 	The latest installment in this remarkable series , 49 Up is a satisfying continuation of Michael Apted 's singular sociological and cinematic experiment .
no strings attached 2011 Kutcher and Portman have terrific screen physics , using their 12-inch height difference to considerable slapstick effect . Sometimes it 's just enjoyable to watch a movie where all the characters are nice ; to spend ninety minutes with a bunch of people who are smart , funny , amiable and kind to one another . A nice sense of comedic background detail and the winning chemistry of stars Natalie Portman and Ashton Kutcher power No Strings Attached . If I had to dig for praise , it 's impressive that Reitman manages to get the 5'2 '' Portman and 6'3 '' Kutcher in the same frame . The problem is that we know the 'friends with benefits ' deal always leaves someone hurt ; the joy would be in seeing how all this lust could believably turn into love . An unevenly fun and cute film . Only a failure , and not the grim , joyless train-wreck that it 's so easy to expect from just about everything there is to know about the film . Benefits the most from a sexy , emotionally available/vulnerable turn by Natalie Portman . But the Kutcher guy is n't bad either . I 'm not sure what Reitman 's doing fixating on the genital action of twentysomethings , but if there was ever a reason to root against the upcoming ( maybe ) Ghostbusters 3 , this movie proves the filmmaker is out of creative gas . Surprisingly , these beyond-gorgeous celebs do n't register any heat . At all . 	It benefits from the presence of Natalie Portman and director Ivan Reitman 's steady hand , but No Strings Attached does n't have the courage or conviction to follow through on its ribald premise .
1068177-richard iii It is all in the grand manner of Shakespearean tragedies . Interesting modernization of Shakespeare , before Baz Luhrmann 's Romeo and Juliet . Ian McKellen plays Richard III , and he 's a twisted , blackened , serpentine , lurching , spitting , menacing villain with no redeeming qualities whatsoever . He is so hateful , it is easy to see why the Academy overlooked him . Flourish is the name of the game , and even what seems like unintentional comedy may be more purposeful than it appears . A great concept -- and McKellen still rules Shakes works ! The actors are uniformly good , including Broadbent 's unctuous Buckingham and Hawthorne 's sweet , unsuspecting Clarence . This triumphant take on the Crookback king is as different from Olivier 's '50s historical pageant as chalk is from malmsey . ... McKellan helped his own cause by writing a screenplay which captures the essence of Shakespeare 's play while also working perfectly as a movie . Overall , this version of Richard III is an entrancing interpretation . McKellen 's enormous performance as Richard represents the film 's biggest tinkering with theatrical canon . 	This re-imagining of Shakespeare 's Crookback King relocates the story in 1930 and features an indelible star turn for Ian McKellen as the monstrous and magnetic King Richard .
debs A heat-free pseudo-lesbian spoof of Charlie 's Angels by way of Heathers . Pretty disarming overall , and has a nicely satiric edge to it . Rent Pootie Tang instead . Flat out funny , but a lack of tension undercuts the plot . [ A ] cheering reminder of what can be done by clever people with a small budget and a lot of enthusiasm . A hideously unfunny spy spoof . A former short film stretched beyond the interest of its wanly amusing riffs , it settles for easy , familiar jokes and slack storyline tension . It 's smarter than it has to be yet makes virtually no effort to take itself seriously . Makes Charlie 's Angels seem intelligent ! With the fun , nonstop momentum of a Saturday morning cartoon , D.E.B.S . makes you forgive most of its shortcomings . 	Lacking enough material for a full-length movie , D.E.B.S . is short on both plot and laughs .
dracula pages from a virgins diary Maddin follows the time-tested PBS route , giving the dancers a stage instead of a film set and using cornball dissolves and fog machines . A fascinating hybrid -- and another delirious chapter in the Canadian maverick 's still-evolving career . In a year in which so many movies have ( pun intended ) sucked , Dracula : Pages From a Virgin 's Diary stands even higher as a triumph of artistry and entertainment . A diversion that only makes you wish you could have seen Royal Winnipeg 's original ballet . By the end , you 'll wonder why all films are n't made this way . Maddin chops it up into a feature-length antique-bloodsucker video , and the result takes hold neither as dance nor as silent horror dream . The visual style is at once deliberately archaic and slyly postmodernist , slinky and sensuous from first frame to last . Marries B & W silent horror-movie style with beautifully eerie ballet in a succulently cinematic , lustfully melodramatic adaptation that is at once wholly unique and uncommonly faithful to Bram Stoker 's classic novel . It will no doubt leave ballet fans somewhat nonplussed , but this evocative danse macabre is an unusually insightful addition to the Count 's long list of cinematic appearances . One of the most bizarre and extraordinary dance movies you 'll ever see . 	Guy Maddin 's film is a richly sensuous and dreamy interpretation of Dracula that reinvigorates the genre .
orange county This is a breath of fresh air and it rattles along at a zippy pace with change from an hour and a half , just as every good comedy should . This extremely unfunny film clocks in at 80 minutes , but feels twice as long . A kooky , diverting comedy that tempers low-brow slapstick with gentle humour and a few poignant insights . ... has twice the laughs and six times the personality of feeble , prefabricated sitcoms like `` American Pie '' ... Feels like six different movies fighting each other for attention . A film that does little more than wander aimlessly about . ... Second-rate teen comedy ... Though there are no real belly laughs or any Farrelly-like set pieces , this is still a better than average comedy , thanks to its witty script and its amusing collection of characters . Jake Kasdan ( son of Lawrence ) directs Colin Hanks ( son of Tom ) in Orange County , a Wonder Boys for the teeny-bopper sect . Clearly , nobody will mistake Kasdan as a modern-day Aesop as his floundering yet free-wheeling fable Orange has the unwelcoming taste of a dour lemon . 	Smarter than the average teen movie , but a little on the unmemorable side .
chronicles of riddick Diesel gives a one-note performance that may be somewhat fitting of his dark and dreary character , but nonetheless grows tiresome rather quickly ... The Chronicles of Riddick may not quite gain entry to the hallowed pantheon of interstellar cheese of a Battlefield Earth , but it 's not far behind . Vin Diesel , the star as Neanderthal , returns for a sequel to 2000 's Pitch Black . Overblown , badly written , poorly edited and just downright boring , this is , in a word , Riddickulous . Good special effects , though . A Star Wars for grown-ups , with the complexities of Lord of the Rings and the serial adventure quality of Indiana Jones . Writer-director David Twohy has a much bigger budget than he did for Pitch Black , but he makes the all-too-common mistake of believing money can substitute for imagination . Some may call David Twohy 's film pretentious ; the target market for this boys ' own adventure may not actually care . . . But for me , give me a good story any day . The Chronicles of Riddick is many things , but it 's never dull . The movie is less than two hours but feels three times as long . If the Terminator went back in time to win a game of Dungeons and Dragons , it 'd be a lot like The Chronicles of Riddick . 	As an action movie , Riddick offers some thrills , but as a sequel to Pitch Black , it 's a disappointment .
scorpion king Another grandiose , hyperactive crock , full of lame jokes and gorgeous , stupefying images . It 's a fairly pedestrian adventure . It 's not hateful . It 's simply stupid , irrelevant and deeply , truly , bottomlessly cynical . The Scorpion King may look like a movie , but it feels like a food fight . The Rock is an action star dynamo , with the size of a whale and the grace of a dolphin . And he struts his mad skills in `` The Scorpion King . '' For a movie with such a misplaced sense of history , The Scorpion King seems afraid to have more fun with its own stupidity . It 's fun because The Rock clearly has a sense of humor . If this does n't scream 'direct-to-video , ' I do n't know what does . ... an unapologetic rip-off of `` Conan '' and `` The Beastmaster '' that will have audiences and critics alike loathe to admit they had fun watching it . It 's impossible to overstate how deeply dumb all of this is , but it skims along at a brisk clip and manages not to overdo the nudge-nudge , wink-wink humor . 	Action adventure does n't get much cheesier than The Scorpion King .
tailor of panama Strong as Brosnan is , Rush is more impressive for the ways he can make us sympathize with someone who is doing dreadful things . Has a lot of wry , twisted humor . In a period devoted to digital spectacle , it 's almost a shock to come across a film grounded in complex characterizations , subtle plot twists and deep moral ambiguity . A wise , vivid , thoughtfully textured film . It 's hard to work up much enthusiasm for any of its characters or sympathize with their plight . Refashioned only imperfectly from the book , it ends up neither fish nor fowl , an amalgam of drama , satire and farce which never comes together into a satisfying whole . Rich but uneven . A literate and entertaining comic thriller . When the revolution turns real , the film finally collapses under the burden of implausibility . The film has been directed with a shrewd balance of wit , tension , parody and empathy . 	The Tailor of Panama is a smart , darkly satirical thriller with exuberant performances from Pierce Brosnan and Geoffrey Rush .
gojira Seen afresh in this cut , with Honda 's pulp poetry restored , this ballad of destruction reveals itself as one of the most exciting , enjoyable and moving of them all . By today 's standards , this may feel rather dull and ponderous , but it 's actually a remarkably astute film . There 's a surprisingly powerful thrust to this film . Instead of a disjointed monster movie , this original Godzilla is a masterful statement about humankind 's monstrous abilities to inflict harm on itself and the world . An interesting exercise in nostalgia as well as an informative look at the origins of a sci-fi giant who 's stamped through nearly 30 films . Japan 's classic monster movie in its original and better form . It 's ultimately rather difficult to discern why Godzilla has amassed a reputation as a classic of the genre ... A masterpiece : even in its most generic elements , it 's never just a monster movie , but a fantastic depiction of how humans survive and struggle . It was n't until I revisited the first film in the series , which premiered in Japan on Nov. 3 , 1954 , that I realized how powerful a political statement it makes . For all its rubbery fakeness and sometimes silly plotting , the film nevertheless cuts right to the bone of nuclear anxiety 	More than straight monster-movie fare , Gojira offers potent , sobering postwar commentary .
jakob the liar Even though director Peter Kassovitz tries hard to reproduce the soul-chilling despair of the ghetto , truth eludes Jakob The Liar . Written with astonishing crudeness ! Jakob the Liar is more pleasant than painful . And with Williams , that 's really all we 're asking for . Ultimately appreciated more for what it does n't do than what it does . Possesses a rewarding life of its own ! Jakob the Liar aspires to be a poignant parable about the power of hope but instead uses one of humanity 's greatest tragedies for trite melodrama . Collapses in a heavy-breathing marriage of irony and unearned sentiment . Clumsy and forgettable ! Unfortunately , schmaltz seems to be the main ingredient in this particular kettle of fish . A plodding , well-intended comedy-drama drowned in a muddy palette of grays and browns , thick with the odd sound of American actors using fake Polish accents . 	Any real story is buried by awkward performances and contrived situations .
cave of forgotten dreams strongest sequences occur while simply viewing the paintings without narration Cave of Forgotten Dreams is one of Herzog 's most memorable films . Its subject , the 32,000-year-old drawings on the wall of the Chauvet Cave in southern France , is so astonishing that even Herzog 's amiable sidetracks ca n't destroy the wonder . If the movies are designed to transport us to inaccessible worlds you ca n't beat Cave Of Forgotten Dreams ... See this film . It takes you to a place you wo n't soon forget . What is cinema but shadows dancing on walls ? There is nothing gimmicky about Herzog 's use of 3D in Cave of Forgotten Dreams . The depth of field afforded by the 3D format gives the viewer an uncanny spatial awareness of the site . Does n't bring 3-D to dazzling new heights . Instead , it uses this relatively new technology to burrow a little deeper , both literally and figuratively , into history - into the nature of mankind , even . We 're never going to be allowed in this place , so thanks , Werner , for inviting us along . Is any filmmaker more comfortable moving between the didactic and the lyrical , between quotidian facts and profound speculation ? To puzzle over these questions with Herzog makes for a singular and rapturous viewing experience . 	Hauntingly filmed and brimming with Herzog 's infectious enthusiasm , Cave of Forgotten Dreams is a fascinating triumph .
blancanieves The final sequences - including the odd , unsettling epilogue - are truly beautiful , shot stunningly by Kiko de la Rica and scored by Alfonso de Vilallonga . And all of it is wordless . That 's magic . The running time is a bit indulgent , but the journey is delightful . A stark , romantic and beautifully executed version of the Grimm fairy tale . It hardly needs to be said that this fairytale is not really intended for children . In truth , few fairytales are . ... is n't about the deteriorating commercial hoopla surrounding silent cinema a la `` The Artist '' but rather a pure celebration of the medium 's power . Although much of the action is played for dark comedy , Berger undercuts his pastiche with unexpected poignancy at key moments . A humorous , heartbreaking return to old moviegoing habits , using fairy tale inspiration to emphasize heroes and villains while retaining a bittersweet quality that keeps the effort earthbound . Inspired filmmaking steeped in the imagery of silent film history , a dark Iberian strain of Roman Catholicism and the magic of fairy tales . Suitably dark for a film with barely concealed undercurrents of child abuse and necrophilia . Fans of Mirror Mirror need not apply . A grotesquely beautiful new take on the Snow White fable by Spanish writer-director Pablo Berger . 	Smartly written and beautiful to behold , Blancanieves uses its classic source material to offer a dark tale , delightfully told .
1211195-debt Younger audiences will likely find The Debt too slow for their liking , but what it lacks in realistic casting it gains in meatily plotted espionage and weighty drama . It probes , with perhaps more energy than clarity , the ethical and psychological complications that can lie hidden beneath a story of simple heroism . ... a high-voltage film with a twist , expertly directed by Madden with terrific performances by the entire cast , but especially Mirren , Chastain , and Christensen . The cast does what it can in the service of this assignment . But some jobs simply resist satisfying completion . It 's a wakeup face slap for a medium that has spent too many warm-weather nights dreaming of superheroes and frat boys . Boils down to the importance of facing up to what one can and ca n't live with , and taking action to set matters right ... audiences will be able to recognize the secret agency in their own lives and the folly of living lies . As a thriller , The Debt performs many if not all the right moves . The suspense builds nicely , the twists come as surprises and its key characters are vivid enough . A painstakingly old-fashioned drama that 's far more interested in the nuances of human behavior than exploitation or pyrotechnics . The remake ups the adrenaline factor , and features strong perfs across the board , yet feels bogged down by a weighty love triangle and a subject that merits more than the old-school good vs. evil approach . Expanded review : Based on riveting story , this remake of the 2007 Israeli film is a gripping if implausible thriller , offering commentary on the making of political heroes and myths ; at this phase , Helen Mirren can do no wrong . 	Its time-shifting narrative creates distracting casting problems , but ultimately , The Debt is a smart , well-acted entry in a genre that could use more like it .
marley and me Just like the book , this movie has substance , humour and a huge heart . The dog -- or the many dogs who play Marley through the years -- also delivers some of the funniest scenes . Even dog skeptics might be surprised how deftly Marley & Me adapts newspaper columnist John Grogan 's book ... into the equivalent of a kid 's movie for adults . [ Blu-ray ] Un pasatiempo divertido y sensible al mismo tiempo , liviano y nada pretencioso . Quien busque una comedia slo para rer , que busque otra cosa ; aqu tambin encontrar lgrimas . Its small moments of insight do n't make up for the overall lack of drama or narrative , but they will evoke all the proper emotions out of an audience with tissues at the ready . While the movie was fun and entertaining , do n't believe the advertisements because the film may have one of the most emotional endings I have ever seen . Save some time ; stay at home and think of your dead pets instead . Sometimes , and especially on a crummy afternoon in the middle of March , it 's nice to be able to switch off and settle down to enjoying the sight of middle-class families eating well and playing together in sprawling , bucolic gardens . A surprisingly moving portrait of family life over the course of 15 years , enlivened by strong , likeable performances . Alternately sweet , sad and sentimental , Marley & Me represents cinema as dog 's best friend . 	Pet owners should love it , but Marley and Me is only sporadically successful in wringing drama and laughs from its scenario .
lovely and amazing Darkly funny and affecting story . A gutsy little picture and a nice slice of life . The auteur 's ear for the way fears and slights are telegraphed in the most blithe exchanges gives the film its lingering tug . This unassuming comedy-drama catches you off guard with its astute observations and detailed characters . A modest , uneventful film , buoyed by fine , albeit low-key , performances and the ring of truth . Who 'd have thought spending 90 minutes with a bunch of neurotic women could be such fun ? An intelligent , unassuming drama that 's never less than enjoyable . By the end of it all I sort of loved the people onscreen , even though I could not stand them . Perhaps the film should be seen as a conversation starter . It 's not an easy one to review . A fully-developed , superlative character study . Biting , unique movie that , though a woman 's picture , should not be considered a 'chick flick . ' These people are too real for that . ... sort of comes off like a Mike Leigh film absent the excoriating honesty 	The bitingly truthful Lovely & Amazing is a smart and perceptive female character study .
kinsey A fine , scintillating portrait of a trailblazer whose clear-headed approach to sex and its study can still shock in these supposedly more liberated times Does it openly moralize for greater sexual freedom ? Surely not , but indirectly it may encourage more folks to examine their own beliefs . Bound by a conventional framework , the result is admirable if unexciting . Condon sketches in the sexually benighted pre-World War II era with amusing and alarming touches . Features brave and memorable performances by Liam Neeson and Laura Linney Genocdio , sim ; orgasmo , no . Somos mesmo uma espcie evoluda . Smart , eloquent and refreshingly free of condescension , Kinsey makes clear we 'd all be a lot worse off without him . The movie is a lot like its central character : precise , clinical , probing and often terribly amusing in its full-steam-ahead approach to topics that make most of us blush . But it 's an emotionally cool experience . Wisely , Condon never condemns nor endorses Kinsey 's viewpoint . Emerges not only as a movie about another time but as a movie of our time , a reminder that progress can be made only when someone 's willing to step up to the plate . 	A biopic of the sex researcher is hailed as adventurous , clever , and subversive , with fine performances by Liam Neeson and Laura Linney .
gamer An injection of adrenaline straight to the eye - which is n't entirely a bad thing . A virulently ugly , unpleasant movie to look at as well as an incredibly stupid one , an insult to the eye as well as the brain . Gamer feels like a video cheapie that just time warped in from the 1990s . . . The action scenes are a giant blurry glob of explosions , sudden attacks and spontaneous graphic deaths . ... a film that is n't merely offensive but borderline irresponsible , and all the more so because the filmmakers might consider that description a compliment . At times striking , and at others silly , and and yet at others sickening , but never too stupid , at least not compared to so much else flash and pop peddled to the masses these days . It 's clear that Neveldine and Taylor could have come up with something deeper , darker , and better for their third act . Instead , they lean on the easy cheat codes of conventionality , somehow forgetting they 're better at exploding them . Parental Content Review In the space of ninety minutes , we get a body count that has to be in the triple digits , loads of T & A , and even a full on musical number click to read the full review 	With all of the hyperkinetic action and none of the flair of Mark Neveldine and Brian Taylor 's earlier work , Gamer has little replay value .
shaun the sheep 2015 Mark Burton and Richard Starzak directed something so good I can say it 's even better than Pixar 's Inside Out . [ Full review in Spanish ] the animators communicate so much through the almost microscopic adjustments of the wrinkles in a character 's forehead or shifting the angle of an eye . It reminds viewers that character animation is the art of caricatured movement , not sitcom wisecracks . Children will find something classically resonant in the story - a desire for chaos and independence , balanced with the reassurance of order and security . an energetic and charming romp through the claymation countryside Genius . Seriously . The gorgeous big-screen version of Aardman 's TV hit has been carried off with faultless professionalism . Give me a Shaun action-figure tie-in over Minions Tic-Tacs or Icees any day . Well now , here 's a good yarn , the feature debut of Shaun the Sheep , the biggest stop-motion star to come along in animation since Wallace and Gromit . As a silent the film is almost entirely limited to sight gags , and they come thick and fast . And most of the gags work . It uses its own unique look , and the occasional lapse into the language of the action adventure , to turns frowns upside down 	Warm , funny , and brilliantly animated , Shaun the Sheep is yet another stop-motion jewel in Aardman 's family-friendly crown .
u turn 1997 The stylistic fun Stone has in dramatizing this crime of passion thoroughly revitalizes the well-worked genre . It 's a feast for the senses , as long as you have a strong stomach . The film takes so many detours that at least one or two of them are bound to surprise even the most jaded movie-goer . With brilliant photography and inventive camerawork , Stone gives a really interesting feel to the story . Stone and screenwriter John Ridley have fun spinning the ultimate hard-luck story , with a cast that seems to relish taking things well over the top . A funny , tragic and seductive work , black , bleak and brazen to the end . If you 're looking for something light and fun , skip this one . Otherwise , it 's worth taking in this exploration of the underbelly of American life . Although many of the performances -- particularly from Nolte , Penn and Thornton -- are enjoyable , the movie plunges so deeply into black comedic hell , all is lost . Viewers who do n't need depth and can ignore technique overkill along with social critique nonsense , should enjoy the bumpy ride offered by 'U Turn . ' This long , strange trip is fun but aimless . 	U-Turn is a lurid , stylish lark that boasts striking moments but lacks the focus and weight of Oliver Stone best work .
roman de gare Lelouch surprises us at every turn and we never know where the story is going to take us . Roman de Gare is the rare trick film in which all the tricks reveal something amusing , involving or poignant about its characters . There 's no depth or resonance to what happens in the picture ; it 's all surface effect . But that does n't mean it is n't reasonably enjoyable . Forty years after his breakout success as a filmmaker , Claude Lelouch makes something of a comeback with his playful and sexy whodunit , Roman de Gare . Stylish thriller a return to form for New Wave vet Lelouch . The thriller elements that become the crucial threads in the third act are a bit clunky and the resolution is not convincing , either dramatically or romantically , but the film is nonetheless an entertaining journey filmmaking for filmmaking 's sake . Lelouch 's deft touch with various cinematic styles , however surface , enables him to interweave pastoral elegy , quirky social comedy and thriller with fluid ease . Lelouch 's film is the cinematic equivalent , enjoyable fluff that your mind will discard after the closing credits -- but worth seeing nevertheless . [ Lelouch ] masterfully switches tone without missing a beat and has truly created a masterpiece that can only get better the more times it 's watched . 	Claude Lelouch has crafted an engaging thriller about murder and romance with plenty of stylistic panache .
transporter an almost instantly forgettable European action vehicle with a few relatively good bang-'em-up sequences and a straight-to-video storyline This movie is as fun to sit through as a burning hemorrhoid . This is junk food cinema at its greasiest . Like the longest BMW featurette Guy Ritchie never made , this action yarn is a slick , sexy little package with fast cars , big explosions , dazzling locations in the south of France , a trip-hop score , and about as much plot to fill a thimble . What a yawn this truly abysmal film is . There are some flaws , like the distracting fight photography and the intrusive , immature score , but it has such infectious energy that it 's impossible not to like . Topnotch escapist entertainment . Stylish and enjoyable but prone to stupidity . The non-stop mayhem becomes tedious after a while . I had high hopes from this film ... 	The Transporter delivers the action at the expense of coherent storytelling .
pitch perfect Pitch Perfect proves no one is too cool for the perfect pop song . Hugely enjoyable comedy that hits all the right notes , thanks to a razor-sharp script , impressively staged musical numbers and a pair of brilliant comic performances from Anna Kendrick and Rebel Wilson . Oh , the gag-packed trailer spoiled the entire film . The girls , for the most part , are genuinely funny , weird , real , and , most excitingly , confident . The Spinal Tap of unaccompanied singing . It 's hard to imagine anyone outside of dug-in curmudgeons not being swept up in the musical rush of this movie . A let's-put-on-a-show story so steeped in backlot Hollywood convention it almost embarrasses itself , with the difference being it really does n't care . `` Pitch Perfect '' totally gets one critical fact : A cappella singing contests are both a little bit amazing and a little bit ridiculous . The tone that the film strikes is a perfect balance between the two extremes . As far as college comedies go , it ai n't quite Animal House but I laughed more than I thought I would . The song 's the same , but Pitch Perfect is a great cover version . 	Pitch Perfect 's plot is formulaic , but the performances are excellent and the musical numbers are toe-tapping as well .
oldboy Parts of the movie are luridly enthralling , and its ugliness is strangely appealing ( at least to people with a high tolerance for such things ) . Yet it pushes too many buttons and is filled with so many false endings that eventually it becomes tiresome . You got ta see what the folks in this movie do . Incredible ! A riotously unhinged black comedy , an engagingly twisted thriller and a horrific family tragedy . Shakespearean in its violence , Oldboy also calls up nightmare images of spiritual and physical isolation that are worthy of Samuel Beckett or Dostoyevsky . I do n't think it 's a stretch to say that once the picture gets into Hollywood 's bloodstream , it could well prove to be as influential as John Woo 's 1989 crime thriller , The Killer . What can you say about a movie that has not one , not two , but three scenes of improvised oral surgery ? Oldboy is a delirious , confronting ride , a movie full of visceral shocks and aesthetic pleasures : it has an explosive immediacy and a persistent afterlife , a lingering impact that is hard to shake . Vengeance here 's a clever , evolving beast . Dae-su 's guardian-like enemy stokes his bloodlust , embittering the free man 's returning love of life . The climax is a scarlet swelling into Greek tragedy as truth , reprisal and justice smear . Kinetic and energetic , funny and more than a little insane , the film ingeniously gets us into the mind of its hero . It 's a grand , gritty , indelible experience . 	Violent and definitely not for the squeamish , Park Chan-Wook 's visceral Oldboy is a strange , powerful tale of revenge .
are we done yet Ostensibly , the message ... is the difference between an expensive house and a priceless home , but since the message is taught by a greedy psychopath , it rings a bit hollow . A soulless cinematic travesty that leaves only loathing in its wake . Avoid at all costs . Ice Cube 's do-it-yourself sequel is too formulaic . Is it over yet ? There is something almost revolutionary about the way it and a couple of other recent movies ( including this week 's Firehouse Dog ) are attempting to bring back the sort of live-action family films that Disney used to churn out in the '70s . Starved for a laugh , the film drags on until finally the predictable life lesson is taught and the credits roll . It 's enjoyable for what it is , but without McGinley , it would 've needed major remodeling . As much a broken-down wreck as the house at the center of the plot . Dull and forgettable , relentlessly extending this family comedy franchise . 	Are We Done Yet ? plays it way too safe with generic slapstick and uninspired domestic foibles .
perfect man This is a monumentally bad film , the kind that only comes along once in , oh , I do n't know ... Three years ? Five ? It 's too cute - similar experience to eating a jar of marshmallow cream - it might be good , but it eventually is going to leave a bad taste in your mouth and make you sick . The Perfect Man takes its idiotic plot and uses it as the excuse for scenes of awesome stupidity . Inoffensive does n't make movies . And unless she starts improving her projects soon , neither , soon , will Hilary Duff . Trivializes dishonesty and deception . What writer Gena Wendkos is really saying is that `` the perfect man '' is one who is not present . Probably the only reason the Department of Children 's Services has n't come after her is because they ca n't find her . This is n't exactly like Cyrano poetically faking for Christian , to impress Roxane in Cyrano de Bergerac , it 's more like writer Gina Wendkos slumping in a stupor at her computer . I ca n't see anyone really enjoying this . Keeping the ruse going involves gifts and notes of the `` just missed you '' variety . No one but the staunchest of Duff fans should waste their time with this movie and even they will have to be fooling themselves if they claim to enjoy it . 	Preposterous and predictable , The Perfect Man manages few laughs with its poorly paced sitcom script , cookie-cutter characters and contrived plotting .
27 dresses The cast makes it work . Well , if you can figure out how this story ends , you 've probably got better things to do than watch 27 Dresses . Watching this film is like hoping to be tossed a bride 's bouquet . It 's an awfully likable affair . Predictable but utterly engaging , 27 Dresses will likely be remembered as the film that made Katherine Heigl an A-list star . Frilly testament to the romantic secondary and homage to the nice girls who do n't always finish last . [ H ] erewith the latest example of whalebone-corseted conformity masquerading as a postfeminist statement on modern independent womanhood ... Katherine Heigl proves she deserves leading-lady status in this predictable but entertaining romantic comedy ... Watching `` 27 Dresses '' is like going to a wedding that 's kind of lame -- the chicken marsala is stringy , the DJ only knows show tunes , and the best man 's toast almost triggers an annulment -- but you end up having a decent time anyway . [ A ] traditionally contrived but still rather charming rom-com . 	The filmmakers perfectly follow the well-worn romantic comedy formula , rendering 27 Dresses clichd and mostly forgettable .
biggie and tupac Even if you have no interest in the gang-infested , East-vs.-West Coast rap wars , this modern mob music drama never fails to fascinate . Most of the information has already appeared in one forum or another and , no matter how Broomfield dresses it up , it tends to speculation , conspiracy theories or , at best , circumstantial evidence . The problem with Nick Broomfield 's documentaries is , well , Nick Broomfield . Biggie and Tupac is so single-mindedly daring , it puts far more polished documentaries to shame . Broomfield 's style of journalism is hardly journalism at all , and even those with an avid interest in the subject will grow impatient . The footage of the rappers at play and the prison interview with Suge Knight are just two of the elements that will grab you . Broomfield seems to uncover a massive scoop here , revealing the multitude of people involved and the possible motivations behind the killings of his titular subjects . The fact is that the screen is most alive when it seems most likely that Broomfield 's interviewees , or even himself , will not be for much longer . Broomfield has a rather unique approach to documentary . He thinks the film is just as much a document about him as it is about the subject . Broomfield is energized by Volletta Wallace 's maternal fury , her fearlessness , and because of that , his film crackles . 	This is a compelling documentary , even for those who are n't fans of rap .
riding giants The waves get progressively higher in Stacy Peralta 's overlong but entertaining historical surfing documentary . Giants offers a thrilling , informative history of a sport-subculture . You wo n't want to wait an hour after eating your popcorn to jump into this surfing-culture doc . But you may have to hang on to your seat as board-riding daredevils tackle the humongous waves of Hawaii 's North Shore and other dangerous places . Magnificent if overlong . Entertaining , informative and insightful , this is a hugely enjoyable film that stands a good chance of picking up the Best Documentary award come Oscar time . A breezy and always watchable portrait not only of a sport in ascendance but a way of being . This is vicarious daredevilry at its best . Peralta has a knack for taking a niche sport and drawing out its universal appeal . As he did with skateboarding in Dogtown and Z-Boys , documentarian Stacy Peralta explores the culture , not just the activity , arguing that surfing is as much a lifestyle as it a sport . If the picture does n't lift you to the heights you might expect , it 's still a solid , sometimes exhilarating piece of work . 	A great addition to the existing surfing documentaries .
teenage mutant ninja turtles the movie Cowabunga ! A hip and happening time for fans of all ages ! Parents can vaguely console themselves , however , that amid the kiddie pollution available on Saturday morning TV , the Turtles rank slightly better than the rest . A well-rounded , unpretentious , very funny , knockabout adventure -- subtly blended so that it 's fun for all the family . The cynicism of the motion picture industry will be apparent to any child who is exposed to the many product plugs for a nationwide pizza delivery company . What troubles me about Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles is that it 's basically an exploitation movie aimed at young children . Muppetry coaxes campy '90s hit out of its shell . Ninja Turtles is cluttered and flashy . In terms of plot , there 's not much flesh on its bones . It is itself a mutant of sorts , a contentious , unsightly hybrid of martial-arts exploitation film and live-action cartoon . This movie is nowhere near as bad as it might have been , and probably is the best possible Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle movie . The results are high-spirited martial arts and comedy . 	Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles is exactly as advertised : one-liners , brawls , and general silliness . Good for the young at heart , irritating for everyone else .
fracture A provocative game that plays out with intelligence and wit . ... as satisfying as a weeks-long case being dismissed on a technicality . It makes all that time feel like a monumental waste . It 's the two characters ' exchanges that make this predictable legal thriller rewarding . Here 's a big-name cast in a soap opera drama full of implausible events . Pairing veteran Anthony Hopkins with upstart Ryan Gosling in a smartly written cat-and-mouse game is a brilliant idea . Intense , intriguing , challenging and provocative - it 's hard to stop thinking about . Fracture breaks no new ground , but with [ Gosling and Hopkins ] around , you 'll never be bored . ... the film 's final twist was screamingly obvious to this viewer , but those who do not spot it should have a very good time . Those who do can entertain themselves watching Hopkins and Gosling entertain themselves . The picture is clever , somber , quiet : There 's just no reason it has to be as deadly boring as it is . If you like your thrillers served chilled , Fracture wo n't disappoint . 	Though Fracture 's plot is somewhat implausible , the onscreen face-off between Gosling and Hopkins overshadows any faults .
inland empire A crazy midnight roller coaster ride to Lynchland . A movie you might half dream through an all night marathon of noir and slasher films , your heart pumping with caffeine . Unspeakably beautiful It 's also too long and too reminiscent of Lynch 's other work . But die-hard fans will find things to like . An amazing and unshakeable experience . The three-hour movie is at once inscrutable and deeply satisfying for its daring high wire act of narrative illusion and passionately charged emotions . Something like an avant-garde telling of the myth of Eros and Psyche . It 's a movie spent inside Lynch 's complicated head . this story of magic , madness and metempsychosis will have you feeling like a rabbit trying to puzzle out what exactly is going on as wilder wolves circle and headlights career toward you out of the darkness . It 's an abstract jazz riff , it 's a painting , it 's a monster movie and a musical and a psychodrama and an ellipsis made of black holes . Sprawls onto the screen as if it had escaped directly from within David Lynch 's mind , not like an alien creature let off its leash for the first time . 	Typical David Lynch fare : fans of the director will find Inland Empire seductive and deep . All others will consider the heady surrealism impenetrable and pointless .
midnight run Midnight Run touches on one of the great mysteries of the movies : How is it that the tritest material can come to life when touched by the right director and the right actors ? The result is one of the most entertaining , best executed , original road pictures ever . When it comes to odd-couple action comedies , this is pretty much the epitome of how to do it . De Niro is nervily hilarious and Grodin nervelessly exceptional in Midnight Run , a formula buddy movie exalted to insta-classic status by their performances . The interplay between the two leads is pure gold . Wonder why De Niro does n't do comedy this good any more . De Niro e Grodin , com seus estilos radicalmente diferentes de interpretao , funcionam surpreendentemente bem juntos , elevando a histria formulaica e transformando-a em algo interessante e divertido . While other films may have won awards that year , Midnight Run is really the best film of 1988 . Fun buddy picture . Not great on repeated viewings , but the first time was great The entire cast is superb , each with a good ear for comedy . 	Enlivened by the antagonistic chemistry between Robert De Niro and Charles Grodin , Midnight Run is an uncommonly entertaining odd couple comedy .
scary movie 4 High production values and seemingly endless celebrity cameos only moderately elevate the scattershot satire of the Scary Movie franchise . A throw-it-at-the-wall-and-see-if-it-sticks onslaught of potty jokes , puns , celebrity cameos , J-horror , and j-high sophistication and wit . You get laughs , but not nearly as many as you 'd hoped . peu prs tout est vident , prvisible ou carrment ennuyant , malgr la courte dure du film . Scary Movie 4 never takes you close to death by laughter , as the Naked Gun films did . But it 's funny enough to turn the hands on your watch much more quickly than you can believe . Nothing here is red carpet , admirable entertainment , but compared to last February 's bottom-feeding knockoff , Date Movie , the self-assured Scary Movie 4 looks like The 400 Blows . If you enjoyed any of the previous Scary Movies this one will likely appeal to you . The humor is broad , but much of it hits . ... a cockeyed collection of watered-down , lowbrow parodies that have all the revered spark of a joy buzzer jolting an arthritic patient during a spontaneous handshake . Well , it 's better than Scary Movie 3 : Honey , I Sunk the Franchise . Scary Movie 4 's biggest challenge is trying to stay relevant and original , and these writers could never be accused of being original If `Scary Movie 4 ' had a sell-by date , it would likely be 12/31/05 . Any viewing after then may cause food poisoning . 	Sure to inspire a few chuckles , but not enough to compensate for the recycled material from its predecessors .
88 minutes If one is the loneliest number , two is company , three is a crowd and four is an orgy , then eighty-eight must be the universal symbol for unwatchability . It 's usually fun when a murder-mystery offers several suspects , but this goes beyond serving up a few red herrings ; here , we get trout , tilapia and mahi mahi as well . Pacino and company mark time in this preposterous copycat killer thriller . 88 Minutes is the sort of overblown thriller in which every action , no matter how insignificant , is pregnant with portent , yet it 's a film of nothing but red herrings . Now that this stupendously inept serial-killer flick has slithered into theaters , the diminutive legend had better clear room in his closet for another cinematic skeleton . An inane thriller whose major fear factor hinges on a menacing phone call , the film also relies on a silly phrase intended to fill the viewer with unspeakable terror : 'Tick tock , Doc . ' [ 88 minutes ? It feels like 3 hours ! ] ... The only thing I cared about was when my sentence would be ended and I could finally escape the theater . The illogical script by Gary Scott Thompson is desperate to keep us guessing but clueless as to how . Every tin of red herring in the store gets ripped open . brightened only by its fleeting moments of unintentional humor Okay , so Al went slumming and all he got was a paycheck and movie for his fans to ignore . All is forgiven . Just do n't do it again Al . Please do n't do it again . 	88 Minutes is a shockingly inept psychological thriller that expertly squanders the talent at hand .
lourdes The film was primarily shot on location , which gives it a heaviness , an historic weight , that dominates the movie much more than anything to do with character or plot does . In a film rich with provocative questions , Hausner audaciously examines the ambivalent nature of miracles . Are they gifts from a loving God or random occurrences , bereft of any moral or meaning ? An odd , dispassionate religious film that will likely be more powerful for skeptics than true believers , it manages to most strongly suggest the possibility of grace by so clinically observing its opposite . A provocative and surprising pleasure that may persuade even the most hardened rationalists to reconsider what religion means as a sanctity to those who have few other choices in life . [ An ] aesthetically and tonally controlled knockout . Unexpected consequences result from a possible miracle at Lourdes . Challenging but even-handed look at religious faith . Movies about miracles range from the awful to the unwatchable ... that all changes with Jessica Hausner 's Lourdes ; it 's a visually-striking , beautifully-realised , emotionally-devastating drama that both salutes and skewers the deeply-religious . Lourdes starts from the unexpected position of believing miracles are possible , but it does n't paper over the religious and practical problems they raise -- for the blessed and bereft alike . [ Jessica Hausner 's ] thought experiment is an emotionally potent one . Always profoundly empathetic , even when at its darkest , while weighing religious passion , mortality , heartbreak , hope , desperation and devastation , all part of that both euphoric and absurd experience comprising the human condition . 	As bewitchingly ambiguous as it is beautifully shot , Lourdes explores profound themes with subtlety and a deft comic touch -- and a marvelous performance from its star , Sylvie Testud .
starship troopers A jaw-dropping experience , so rigorously one-dimensional and free from even the pretense of intelligence it 's hard not to be astonished and even mesmerized by what is on the screen . Insanely subversive ... functions as a visually dazzling science-fiction action picture , a philosophical challenge , and a hilarious , incisive comedy . [ Blu-Ray ] Though the movie 's internal logic is a bit shaky ( machine guns are the futuristic weapons for exterminating giant bugs ) , this mammoth production is the most satisfying adventure film of the year . The acting by all concerned makes the cast of 'Melrose Place ' look like the Royal Shakespeare Company , as statuesque model-types bark out lines like 'Everyone fights , no one quits ! ' and 'Kill 'em ! Kill 'em all ! ' with clueless conviction . The enjoyment you get from watching Starship Troopers is similar to the pleasure felt from a loud 'ZAP ' from a bug zapper . And about as deep . It is pure Verhoeven -- broad , brash and ultraviolent , and all up there on the screen . rship Troopers its moments , and it 's certainly not stupid . But there are only so many places the movie can go without tipping its hand , and Verhoeven seems dead set against allowing his film to consciously acknowledge its own subtext . It 's a sci-fi gorefest , and a fun one at that . Nobody objects to a simple gross-out proposition on the big screen . But here too , Starship Troopers does n't quite make it . It 's fun and empty but so much less vacuous than Men In Black . 	A fun movie ... if you can accept the excessive gore and wooden acting .
sightseers With a wink and a shrug , Sightseers shows us evil in all its banality . It 's not a perfect blend , but Ben Wheatley 's film is different enough - on second thought , let 's just call it what it is : weird - to warrant your attention . Your admiration , even . ( ... ) like their black Volvo and white Abbey Oxford caravan , [ Chris and Tina ] seem to be inseparably stuck together in a bizarre kind of tow-bar heaven . This sardonic depiction of Britain , as a land where a thin veneer of strained politesse and fussy specificity of tastes masks a throbbing heart of darkness , makes for Ben Wheatley 's best film yet . The result is something like a heterosexual Carry On film . Sightseers is a brilliantly grim and reasonably amusing comedy that is also wonderfully unpredictable and constantly pushing unforeseen circumstances . Sightseers is not worth seeing at all . Wheatley remains a master of infusing the mundane with overtones of dread . There are a few laughs ; a few wise nods . But before the end fatigue arrives and does n't go away . A quick , dry , acidic comedy that will appeal to anyone who likes horror movies or pitch-black humor . 	Director Ben Wheatley and writer-stars Alice Lowe and Steve Oram deliver a wicked road trip movie that successfully walks the line between dark comedy and horror .
1152276-rent Larson 's music has been given an intoxicating urgency , and the performances are outstanding . Although it is indeed an entertaining and noble attempt to bring the hugely popular Broadway musica Rent to the big screen , something is unfortunately lost in the translation . Chris Columbus 's film affirms that Rent belongs in the pantheon of immortal musicals celebrating the self-dramatizing and resilient spirit of youth . Columbus has made his finest , most emotionally rich film yet . A mediocre , unimaginative , inefficient filmmaker , Columbus delivers a Rent that is n't so much bad as perfunctory . [ Columbus ] launders the grit right out of Rent , choosing to give the movie the glossy and faux shadowy look of a Bud Light commercial . Wait for the 'rent'-al . Generic songs , too much amplification , but worth a look . ... heart , after all , is what `` Rent '' has always been about . For all this movie 's bumbling and stumbling , it still is . No wonder these idiots are broke . 	Fans of the stage musical may forgive Rent its flaws , but weak direction , inescapable staginess and an irritating faux-boho pretension prevent the film from connecting on screen .
all the presidents men As a film , it 's brilliantly crafted and constantly entertaining -- and now a fascinating time capsule of what reporting was like 30 years ago . It really could n't be better made in any respect . The cinematography , sound , editing , acting - all of them are effectively flawless . The effect of All the President 's Men is not to make Watergate more real but to make it more remote . All time great . Wonderful portrayal of journalism and an important moment in American history . gripping and important As smart and cautionary now as it was in the '70s . While there 's an undoubted fascination in all this , after a couple of hours it begins to wear thin . Superb Woodward and Bernstein Watergate story . A triumph of serious Hollywood filmmaking . All the Presidents Men is a thinking man 's political thriller featuring two crusading journalists working their story , consistently following clues and interviewing various sources ( and would be sources ) in their quest for the truth . 	A taut , solidly acted paean to the benefits of a free press and the dangers of unchecked power , made all the more effective by its origins in real-life events .
the town Ben Affleck has managed to sidestep the curse that can dog a sophomore directing effort with The Town , which is in many ways a superior movie to 2007 's Gone Baby Gone . As a chaser to Affleck 's last offering of pungent Beantown brew , The Town is near-beer . Affleck may have suffered a good decade at the ass end of a Matt Damon joke , but between this and Gone Baby Gone , he 's proven himself to be a very capable director . ... one of the best films out of Hollywood this year and Ben Affleck has become a filmmaker of note . A tense thriller full of great performances , `` The Town '' is a heist film that rivals `` Dog Day Afternoon '' and `` Heat . '' A deliberately old-fashioned melodrama that echoes the pulpy mix of violence and romanticism of gangster films of the Thirties and Forties . Solid but superficial and troubling amoral action-packed crime thriller . In his second work , Ben Affleck acquits himself more honorably as helmer than co-writer , showing greater facility with visuals and tempo , but , alas , what begins as crime-policier steeped in particular locale increasingly gets more generic and conventional All is forgiven , Ben . Just stay behind the camera so you can give us more films like The Town Affleck 's attention seems diverted on camera because of his directorial duties . Hall stands out , displaying real emotions . Renner brings out the toughness & spontaneous hair-trigger qualities of his role . Hamm never gets ... 	Tense , smartly written , and wonderfully cast , The Town proves that Ben Affleck has rediscovered his muse -- and that he 's a director to be reckoned with .
mask of zorro Lots of overacting . Lots of clichs . Lots of fun . Not so much a blood-pounding swashbuckling adventure as it is a comfortable old friend -- the kind of movie your grandfather might have seen at a Saturday matinee . Zorro follows the predictable paths of action movies , but re-energizes the pattern with adrenaline , exuberance , creativity , and humor . The Mask of Zorro never loses its freshness precisely because we are continually presented with new formations of the action movie spectacle in a genre we have n't seen much of in a while . It 's still possible to make a rousing popcorn flick without treating your audience like wide-eyed rubes suffering from attention-deficit disorder . Banderas ' appeal alone may be just enough to win over some viewers ; the waste of that appeal , and of the Man in Black 's commanding image , made me long for some heroic figure to come along and make a few strategic slashes in the editing room . Hopkins is typically commanding as the retired caped crusader ( who hangs out in a cave like that other one ) , and Banderas is suave and dashing as his protg . An old-fashioned swashbuckler with plenty of action , charm and romance . You ca n't say they do n't make movies like they used to after seeing this one . God knows it 's hokum of the purest stripe , but Campbell , Hopkins , Banderas , and especially the alarmingly vivacious Zeta-Jones pull it off in spades . A decidedly clever , if largely unoriginal , update in which Banderas inherits blade bravado duties from retired Zorro Anthony Hopkins and crosses swords with a coalition of nefarious Spaniards and Americans trying to take over colonial California . 	Banderas returns as an aging Zorro in this surprisingly nimble , entertaining swashbuckler .
1200743-wrecking crew The unsung heroes who played on stacks of wax during the '60s pop era are celebrated in a hugely entertaining documentary . `` The Wrecking Crew '' succeeds as important cultural history . But it 's also deeply personal for Tedesco ... The Wrecking Crew is breezy , intriguing , tuneful , joyous stuff for anyone . For rock and pop fans , though , it 's absolute catnip . It all feels more like an ambitious home video than a 'proper ' film . Mostly , it 's hagiography , with stars like Cher and Brian Wilson used as character witnesses to the players ' greatness . This Memory Lane is lined with gold . Overall , the documentary comes off as a solipsistic , uncritical look at an incredible moment in the history of American music . It 'll make you listen to `` Good Vibrations , '' a song you 've heard a million times , with fresh ears . It 's a fascinating insight into how a classic song is crafted . Long on nostalgia , the film does shed further light on the genius of Brian Wilson and the unfair uproar over the Monkees ' need for musical backup . Turns out even the Beach Boys required the Wrecking Crew to rock . 	The Wrecking Crew may not achieve the greatness of the many classic songs its subjects helped bring to life , but it remains a heartfelt , overdue tribute to overshadowed brilliance .
1093614-double jeopardy Rip-roaring entertainment ! The script , not rooted in logic , leaves certain plot elements unexplained . And when the ending arrives , it 's no surprise . Piles one loony twist on another with dizzying abandon when it 's not bogged down drinking up scenery that has been exploited to a fare-thee-well on the big screen . One of the dumbest chase thrillers ever to stumble onto the big screen ! The action scenes and color photography are generic . A crackling good action thriller . A fast-moving , entertaining bit of silliness that 's wrapped around a semi-interesting premise -- and a taut performance by Judd . This film takes a potentially interesting premise and makes some mistakes that result in a faulty final product . Anyone with half a brain will leave the theater feeling cheated by its cockamamie premise and unoriginal styling . The result has a drawback common to such movies : too much screen time devoted to the conceit when anyone who has seen the coming-attractions trailer knows it already . 	A talented cast fails to save this unremarkable thriller .
sea inside Javier Bardem gives a remarkable , delicately honed performance . It 's very simple and streamlined , and all that 's left is Bardem 's bid for Oscar glory . What really makes the film watchable is yet another terrific lead performance by Javier Bardem , an actor who only gets better with age . Javier Bardem is the soul of the movie . It 's such a repetitive and thinly constructed piece of filmmaking that the scope and complexity of Sampedro 's case are turned to porridge . It 's curious that the assisted-suicide debate over a late plot twist in Million Dollar Baby did n't rage over this one . After all , Amenabar is dealing with a real life . The film is based on a true story , but that does n't stop Amenabar from inventing certain characters and incidents to further his tearjerker agenda -- and court Oscar voters , who love this kind of high-toned schmaltz . Un poema hermoso de forma y fondo . It 's Bardem 's acting that makes it easy enough to overlook the film 's occasional jaunts into melodrama ... [ Takes ] viewers to a place they wo n't feel comfortable in but should spend at least a little time exploring . 	Held aloft by a transfixing performance from Javier Bardem as a terminally ill man who chooses to die , The Sea Inside transcends its melodramatic story with tenderness and grace .
you me and dupree Not that the film needed to head into darker territory , but sidestepping even half of the clichs of the final act may keep the film from feeling so uneven and disposable . But , as far as disposable entertainment goes , it gets the job done . In terms of actual laughs , this is somewhere between a scorching STD and a sleepy corporate-gig Dennis Miller show . Low IQs plague otherwise funny Wilson vehicle ... Tells a story I recognized with characters I liked , and that earns higher marks than simply parading Owen Wilson around for 108 minutes . We 've seen this all before , and quite frankly ; it 's starting to get a bit boring . What About Bob this ai n't . Given the intellectual level of this film and its lack of humor , it is not surprising that the ending rewards bad behavior . If you 're smart , it 's an ending you will never see . Ultimately , the movie is redeemed by a string of well-earned laughs and its trio of bright and engaging leads . Hectoring his wife for liking pretty boys sounds hollow coming from the guy who launched a thousand Tiger Beats in the late '70s and early '80s . Yet another comedy about a man-child who wo n't grow up , You , Me and Dupree has the faintly stale smell of food left overnight on the counter . 	A rather generic entry into the arrested development subgenre , with themes borrowed from other more successful and funnier films . Dupree wears out its welcome .
the lone ranger This slapdash effort just does n't cut it , which makes me wonder if the Ranger would n't have been better off remaining in those thrilling days of yesteryear . All in all , `` The Lone Ranger '' exceeded my expectations . I 'm all for senseless violence in movies , but there is so much death and destruction going on here , you start to wish something nice would happen for once . Violent to the point that to recommend this film to any Disney-loving kid would perhaps taint said child 's opinion of the Mouse House for life . Everything about this film screams excess , from the ludicrous two-and-a-half hour running time to the whopping scale of the action sequences to Johnny Depp 's bizarro costume . Stuck with a character they ca n't really transform or darken , they instead turn him into a galloping joke in a white hat and black mask , which makes it extraordinarily difficult to care about his exploits , no matter how inventively staged they might be . ... funny , exciting , heartfelt , and just full of real joy and great entertainment . [ Verbinski ] crams as much big-budget exhilaration into his movie as its origin story will permit , creating a film less about its namesake as it is large-scale action sequences , explosions , and CGI stunts . `` The Lone Ranger '' is a pounding headache of a movie - loud , dumb , overlong and pointless . The sort of movie that delivers too much too late and still manages to make it feel like too little . 	Armie Hammer and Johnny Depp make for an appealing pair of leads , but they 're not enough to make up for The Lone Ranger 's bland script , bloated length , and blaring action overkill .
lonesome jim In the end , Lonesome Jim is an enormously hopeful and , I think , realistic film . Screenwriter James C. Strouse ( in whose hometown the film was shot ) provides so few clues to the source of Jim 's malaise , or that of his entire sad-sack family , that the movie remains rudderless and not the least bit believable . ... the story of Percyesque ex-suicide , a parable about how embracing childish things can be part of growing up . A slice of deadly dull life . Mr. Affleck is burdened with the difficult task of making moroseness seem interesting . He does n't succeed , and neither does the movie . Steve Buscemi 's third film as a director is a low key affair delivered with a wry sense of humour . A wonderful little movie directed by Steve Buscemi ... [ Hi ] is humor flickers through the story like fairy lights on a gray and unpromising day . A lackluster film about a lackluster fellow , it 's so beholden to deadpan , droopy , mopey blandness that the subject and the form become one , leaving the viewer numb and indifferent . There 's only so long you can watch this guy mope around without wanting to scream , 'Dude , what 's your problem ? ' Now that digital imagery ( Buscemi 's film is another InDigEnt production ) is virtually indistinguishable from handheld celluloid , where 's the 21st century 's own nasty , truth-seeking front edge ? 	Though Lonesome Jim is leavened by sweet , understated humor , it 's hard to root for such a morose , self-defeating protagonist .
going upriver the long war of john kerry Butler makes the case that Kerry fought bravely as commander of a swift boat , then mustered another kind of courage -- no less patriotic -- in protesting the futility of that conflict . The archival footage is a potent reminder that even if the country 's mood today is divisive , the level of dissent pales before that of three decades ago . A serious , often very moving portrait of the effect the Vietnam War had on the nation and particularly those who served in it . The most sobering aspect of the film is its ability to subtly highlight all the uncanny -- and frightening -- parallels between then and now . The movie is guaranteed to engage the decided and undecided alike , regardless of party affiliations . Butler is on record as a close friend of Kerry 's , but he 's also a well-respected documentarian , who introduced Arnold Schwarzenegger to America in Pumping Iron and chronicled the heroism of Ernest Shackleton in The Endurance . Butler 's film may do little to change the outcome of the election , but anyone who questions Kerry 's convictions should see Going Upriver before casting their vote . If Kerry 's service in Vietnam is a critical issue to you , then Going Upriver is required viewing to understand the era and how it affected Kerry . The Vietnam scar is bleeding again . One of the most moving things for me was seeing that some of the high-ranking politicians really did recognize that , hey , we need to meet with these young men and hear what they have to say and that footage is amazing stuff . 	Interesting and revealing footage of both Kerry and the Vietnam era in general .
spiderman 2 Oh yeah . That 's the sweet spot . Raimi handles it effortlessly because he keeps his focus tightly in the characters ' hearts and minds . With the reluctant hero 's origins covered in the first movie , a sequel offered returning director Sam Raimi the chance to have some real fun . And that 's exactly what he does . It is so rare that a sequel improves upon the original , but that is exactly what Sam Raimi and company have done with the magnificent [ I ] Spider-Man 2 [ /I ] . The sequel bests the original for the third time this summer as Spider-man 2 leaves your jaw touching the floor for the entire geek-gasmic blast Good but far from great . The down-home dialogues are as involving as the aerial exhibitions . A silly comic book movie with provocative psychological overtones . Or a provocative character study with silly comic book overtones . The action scenes were breathtaking , and abundant enough to keep things hopping . [ The first big fight scene ] looks so realistic that it 's hard to believe the whole thing was shot in a computer . 	Boasting an entertaining villain and deeper emotional focus , this is a nimble sequel that improves upon the original .
man on wire In archival photos Petit seems to float between the towers , a tiny black figure against a vivid blue sky ; the images are all the more poignant for the unstated fact that Petit is still around when the buildings are n't . Man On Wire is an engrossing film that captures the imagination and never ceases to entertain . Maintains a sense of excitement and poetry . As the film traces how he plotted his Word Trade Center walk , it starts to feel almost like a heist movie , as Mr. Petit and his cronies map out each minute detail over the course of month . In a city synonymous with hustle and bustle , the image of a stony-faced Frenchman gracefully dancing across a wire suspended between the Twin Towers , with no safety net or harness , is an overwhelmingly beauteous juxtaposition . Spellbinding , and a model of the documentary form . A documentary about a towering act of daring proves a spine-tingling memorial to recklessness as art . ... cheekily irreverent Petit is such an ebullient guy it 's hard not to get sucked into his high-wire antics . Beautifully put together , it is every bit as suspenseful as even the best Hollywood heist films , which is even more remarkable when you consider that we know , from the first frame , that Petit will survive . 	James Marsh 's doc about artist Phililppe Petit 's artful caper brings you every ounce of suspense that can be wrung from a man on a ( suspended ) wire .
whale rider You leave the theater feeling as if you 've encountered another culture and drawn inspiration from it . What can revitalize a broken spirit ? The answer lies in the film 's lyrical finale , which is dazzlingly staged , and in the exquisite , irresistible 13-year-old Castle-Hughes , whose natural , unfussy performance is something to treasure . A truly inspiring film . Stripped of its exotic cultural context and New Zealand setting , it would n't differ much from an inspirational TV movie ... A moving , intelligent film that will find an enthusiastic audience , Whale Rider gives us the sort of spiritual resolution this poor world needs . Whale Rider is one of those tales with such universal appeal that you can practically see Hollywood executives rubbing their hands together as they prepare to remake it -- and mess it up royally . Newcomer Castle-Hughes ' unaffected , confident turn makes it credible our heroine might retain her determination and self-worth despite serial setbacks . ... an uncommonly intelligent , well-crafted movie that -- despite the curious PG-13 rating -- parents should n't hesitate to see with their kids . Caro manages the neat trick of making a movie universal in its emotions and unique in its setting . A film of elegant simplicity that seamlessly combines reality and mythology . It 's also one of the year 's most beautiful films . 	An empowering and uplifting movie , with a wonderful performance by Castle-Hughes .
stardust As Vaughan demonstrated with Layer Cake , he can shift so smoothly between goofy and gruesome that you do n't feel a thing that he does n't want you to . A pleasant adult fairy tale about a young man who goes on a quest and returns home a different person transformed by what he has seen and experienced . A wonderfully inventive fairy tale that is original and defiant , as well as hilarious and adventurous . Stardust staggers with end-of-summer excess , seldom winning more than a weary gasp . Well , look what fell out of nowhere . Everything but the enchanted kitchen sink shows up in the sprawling fairy tale Stardust . Stardust piles on the conflict and the bombast . Based on the novel by Neil Gaiman , Stardust definitely has more than enough imagination and whimsy to keep you engaged . Stardust lights up the screen with a splendid tale of heroism and romance . You do n't have to be a fan of fantasies to enjoy its considerable whimsy . The kind of genre-defying project that even an old hat like Peter Jackson would struggle with tone-wise and , despite his valiant effort , Vaughn ca n't quite seem to get the mix right . 	A faithful interpretation that captures the spirit of whimsy , action , and off-kilter humor of Neil Gaiman , Stardust juggles multiple genres and tones to create a fantastical experience .
attenberg 2010 The underlying idea is that life goes on whatever we do , that human beings are merely part ( and not the most important one ) of a larger ecological system involving the mineral , vegetable and animal world . The film succeeds not only as an idiosyncratic spin on the coming-of-age story but a wider comment on what it means to be fully human and fully alive in an age of diminished expectations . Attenberg is spare emotionally and visually , and despite the tender humour of Marina 's sexual indoctrination , the film is never completely engaging . For all the eccentricity , the film feels unexpectedly personal in addressing experiences everyone goes through at some point in their lives . A boldly conceived assemblage of diverse and seemingly random fictional materials . Fans of Dogtooth should certainly try this one out . Impressively directed and superbly acted , Attenberg plays like a light-hearted , quirky version of Dogtooth , though its relative lack of plot means that it 's difficult to engage with the characters on an emotional level . A cracked coming-of-age tale set in a fading Greek seaside town . Tsangari catalogues these men and women like butterflies pressed between the pages of an entomologist 's journal , makes brief notes of each one 's idiosyncrasies , and moves on to the next . ... too weird for its own good ... 	At once playfully eccentric and poignantly bittersweet , Attenberg adds a refreshing sideways spin to the arthouse coming-of-age drama .
12 years a slave Apart from caricatures-as-characters reasons , the cinematography in '12 Years a Slave ' is over-prettified and distracting . The genius of 12 Years a Slave is its insistence on banal evil , and on terror , that seeped into souls , bound bodies and reaped an enduring , terrible price . 12 Years A Slave tackles America 's primal sin of slavery with unflinching honesty , leaving in the shade Hollywood 's previous efforts to address the subject , from Gone With the Wind 's rose-tinted myopia to Django Unchained 's gore-and-irony-soaked fantasy . The extraordinary 12 Years a Slave thrusts its lead character ( Chiwetel Ejiofor ) and the audience into slavery 's moral and psychological morass more fully and directly than any movie before it . The film wants to hurt you , knows you are terrified of what it will show you , then shows you way more than you bargained for . this film falters enough that it needs to be acknowledged , its passage of time muddled ... some lesser acting skills distancing , Hans Zimmer 's score only occasionally rising above cliched Celtic themes and mournful fanfare . `` 12 Years '' is a tour de force , just one of the most unpleasant ones you will ever see . It 's smashingly effective as melodrama . But McQueen 's directorial voice-cold , stark , deterministic-keeps it from attaining the kind of grace that marks the voice of a true film artist . 12 Years a Slave is likely the most painful , clear-eyed feature ever made about American slavery . In that light , it almost seems faint praise to add that it will also likely prove to be the best film of the year . The cumulative emotional effect is devastating : the final scenes are as angry , as memorable , as overwhelming as anything modern cinema has to offer . 	It 's far from comfortable viewing , but 12 Years a Slave 's unflinchingly brutal look at American slavery is also brilliant -- and quite possibly essential -- cinema .
latter days Ramsey 's heartbreak , stock taking and determination to see to it the relationship gets a second chance are as affecting as anything the genre has produced in recent memory . [ Writer/director C. Jay ] Cox deftly explores the links between coincidence and destiny , fate and miracles , love and loss . The curse of gay cinema is its belief that worn-out movie plots will become interesting if you put gay characters in them . This film takes the curse several steps further . Such a well-meaning but unambitious work that it 's tempting to take it seriously even as you dismiss it . Sounds like the kind of movie that might appeal to , I dunno , maybe all seven openly gay Mormons and not many others . Even those who are n't immediately put off by the film 's brazen attacks on religion -- and in particular , the LDS Church -- will likely be bored by this clumsy , incredibly contrived comedy , which has little charm . Although a good deal of what happens is predictable , the writer-director C. Jay Cox makes much of it pleasant . Overall generalities about the main characters , a tendency to reveal them through monologue rather than behavior , and a lack of curiosity about the Mormon youth 's core beliefs keep Latter Days from feeling genuinely personal or particularly substantive . Even as it subscribes to the conventions of modern romantic comedy , it never compromises its characters ' truths . simple paint-by-the numbers gay themed film that strikes directly at Mormon dogma , but it has a certain charm due mainly to Sandvoss ' Herculean efforts 	A melodramatic plot and character stereotypes turn the movie into a sitcom .
new york minute Instantly forgettable thanks to a mediocre screenplay . Most viewers will likely be checking their watches , probably wishing this Minute were gone in 60 seconds . [ T ] here 's [ a ] side to the film that nauseates me : the PG-porn undertone ... Even more insipid than you 'd guess , Minute is infrequently made bearable by the cutie-quotient of its richer-than-sin leads . Shouts out a substantial sense of Girl Power to a large and loyal fan base that can officially count me as one of their number . Oh , yes , New York belongs to the Olsen twins , not vice versa . There 's enough self-love to fuel a Streisand film . Who would have thunk the twins from The Shining should have their own movie ? Esta atrocidade poderia representar um embarao para todos os envolvidos , caso estes tivessem algum senso de ridculo - o que , a julgar por este longa , no parece ser o caso . To say that New York Minute is a vehicle for the Olsen sisters is perhaps a slight to four-wheeled conveyances of all kinds . The Olsens go the Britney route in this unfortunate Minute 	Feels more like a calculated product designed to expand the Olsens ' brand than an actual movie . Also , it contains ethnic stereotyping and sexual innuendo .
mighty Good movie about friendship for middle schoolers . The film is barely watchable when [ Gillian Anderson is ] on screen . Decently acted but only moderately inspiring . Celebrates imagination as the firepower that enables these two outsiders to transcend their disabilities , loneliness , and familial problems . Resonates with genuine feeling and storytelling grace . ... A cheesy , overdramatic tear-jerker full of transparent sentimentality and forced emotion . Instead of relying on maudlin music cues and heavy-handed dialogue , Chelsom has faith enough in his script and his cast to allow them to strike emotional chords on their own . it would be a shame if this funny , warm-hearted film did n't find a sizable audience ... A tearjerker that is n't shallow and obvious about pulling the emotions out of you , and can actually be viewed more than once without blowing its shelf life . Touching and ultimately rewarding..Culkin shines 	Heavy-handed and overwrought .
widow of st pierre Moody and provocative romantic epic The promise of its beautiful opening is beautifully kept . Leconte fans will appreciate a much richer , gnarlier foray into the dangerous realm where fervid commitment takes over lives to the extent of threatening them and all about them . Solid The Widow of Saint-Pierre is yet a further testimony to the health of the French film industry and its ability to consistently produce films of exceptional artistry and emotional resonance . Serene and haunting . Hypnotic and haunting -- that rare period piece that resonates with provocative life . A beautifully shot tale of cruel bureaucracy which I found to be harrowing , emotional , and heartwrenching . Leconte is an expert at his craft and , with his fine cast and crew , continues to please . A lean , profound and moving film ; it is art that never forgets to be entertainment . 	Critics are impressed with The Widow of St. Pierre 's intriguing story and beautiful cinematography .
bucket list It 's Grumpy Old Cancer Victims . The irony of it all , considering the message of The Bucket List , is that when the obituaries for all three of these Hollywood legends is written , this film wo n't even merit a footnote . It 's impossible to mistake the movie for inspired . While it all cuts together to make one swell trailer , the end product fails to take flight . Frank Capra would have been at home here . 'The Bucket List ' pales in comparison to the talents of its stars . For a movie about such heady subjects it lacks any real umpf . Strikes a nice balance between comedy and drama , favoring humor and poignant conversations over weepy developments . A sporadically enjoyable no-brainer dramedy with a very simple premise that allows Nicholson or Freeman to coast through it without having to do much heavy hitting . This being Oscar-coveting Hollywood claptrap , class barriers vanish as the two become best friends and Nicholson bankrolls a spree in which they indulge their deepest romantic whims . 	Not even the earnest performances of the two leads can rescue The Bucket List from its schmaltzy script .
1209767-mary and max Elliot is a talent eccentric enough to make Nick Park look like an office drone , and the serious sadness underpinning his vision only makes the humour work better . Funny , poignant and moving , this quirky and clever film oozes heart and insights into human nature . An offbeat and charming animation that is destined to become a cult classic . Up may be a really good film , but compared to Mary and Max it 's an episode of Thundercats . Elliot 's record of an unconventional friendship revels in grotesque detail and scatological humour , but yields unexpected depth and poignancy . Although a tad sappy and heavy-handed at times , Mary and Max fidgets and wiggles its way into our good spirits by the time it reaches its endearing conclusion . I ca n't remember seeing an animated feature so dark and funny and bizarre and sad , all at the same time . It 's a 20-year story that absorbs and beguiles , despite the ugly subject matter . Exquisite attention to detail that creates not only a complex portrait of each of the main characters but also a vivid sense of place . Everyone and everything is bursting with a hyper-real life that is pitched perfectly to the tragi-comic tone of the story . 	Mary and Max is a lovingly crafted , startlingly inventive piece of animation whose technical craft is equaled by its emotional resonance .
henry-portrait-of-a-serial-killer McNaughton 's direction combines a strict social realism with a cool , Fritz Langian sense of pre-determination , while his work with actors has the improvisational freshness of a John Cassavetes . From a technical standpoint , Henry is amateurish . But ultimately it 's not the gilded frame that made it a modern horror classic , but its unblinking portrait of a remorseless killer who stares back at the audience and forces them to turn away . McNaughton 's rough , non-judgemental direction gives the film a stylishly chilling documentary feel , while the killer 's use of a camcorder asks some challengingly uncomfortable questions about voyeurism and the nature of screen violence . John McNaughton 's haunting film is a grim journey into the life of its twisted subject that refuses to moralise or judge . If you want a gore fix , this is it . If you 're looking for a film with purpose , better wait until the bill changes . A brutally honest intimate portrait of a serial killer that makes you feel rotten inside . Henry : Portrait of a Serial Killer surely ranks as one of the most frightening and disturbing films ever made . Certainly not for everyone , but if slasher movies are your cup of tea this is a lot better than most , and the use of Chicago locations is especially effective . A genuinely upsetting film that 's guaranteed to make you more paranoid . MacNaughton 's direction is extremely bland , although I do n't mean that negatively : he portrays Henry in a very realistic manner , not adding any wild directing techniques to what he does , and because of this digs deeper into the character . 	Henry : Portrait of a Serial Killer is an effective , chilling profile of a killer that is sure to shock and disturb .
1007657-footloose reignited the youth genre with the dynamics of music video aesthetics and has remained a cultural touchstone ever since I know it 's a classic , but I wanted more dancing . Great hair though . The movie features some good dancing -- not nearly enough , however -- and a fine , understated performance by Lithgow in a role that might easily lend itself to caricature . Only the most cynical would never admit to tapping their toes to Loggins ' title track . Sadly , sadly dated . For such an iconic dance movie , Footloose is an odd bird of a movie with surprisingly little dancing . Footloose was n't exactly a critical fave , but it did n't try to be hip and it had a relatively light touch , with recognizable human beings on the screen . A '50s B-movie very awkwardly translated to the '80s . The goofy breakdancing session at the senior prom that closes Footloose is a poor substitute for either the wildly pleasurable spectacles of past Hollywood musicals or the exaggerated pathos of a great teen film like Rebel Without a Cause . A cynical and manipulative exercise with little feel for the teen culture it purports to celebrate . 	There 's not much dancing , but what 's there is great . The rest of the time , Footloose is a nice hunk of trashy teenage cheese .
first sunday First Sunday is harmless , church-approved optimism with just enough bawdy behavior to keep general audiences attentive to the lessons on right and wrong and urban fatherhood participation . It 's medicine , but it 's far more agreeable than I expected . As the mind wanders during the first chuckle-free half-hour of the Ice Cube comedy First Sunday , a thought occurs : Should n't you have to win an Oscar before you make a movie this bad ? This anemic vehicle for Ice Cube and Tracy Morgan to mug and jive through is just weak , weak stuff . As tired as First Sunday is , and as shamelessly as it grovels for laughs , there 's a hint of sweetness , and [ director ] Talbert clearly has a feel for Baltimore , where most of it was affectionately shot . The movie 's total lack of focus and its unimpressive script should render it totally unwatchable . Weirdly , that does n't quite happen . It 's not as if First Sunday sets out to be awful , it simply is . With its unlikely but sweet-natured story , 'First Sunday ' is a cut above most of the `` January junk '' that floods the theaters this time of year . David E. Talbert 's frenetically unfunny comedy about two losers who attempt to rob a church . Does n't have a prayer . Talbert 's unable to pin down exactly what kind of movie he wants to make , a slapstick sermon or an urban tragicomedy ? Grafting moral uplift on to a slapstick caper with mixed results , this nevertheless captures some of the giddy eccentricity of the Ealing comedies it haphazardly resembles . 	First Sunday may have its heart in the right place , but its funny bone is dislocated .
the frighteners Violent , frenzied , foul-mouthed ghost comedy . Despite being awful in almost every respect , The Frighteners does offer one small pleasure : R. Lee Ermey parodying his Full Metal Jacket drill sergeant character . It 's a fascinating failure , perhaps , but it 's still a mess . The talented director of `` Heavenly Creatures '' has pulled together a film that wants to be everything to everyone simultaneously . A thoroughly preposterous movie that 's as outrageously entertaining as it is relentlessly chaotic . The actors ca n't keep the film 's mood from verging on hysteria as the story roams all over the map . `` The Frighteners '' has flitted everywhere , even to heaven and hell , before it 's over . A mess with sporadic flashes of creativity . At times the relentless special effects and tangled plotting veer towards visual and narrative overkill , but the final tonal swerve is shocking and effective . Full of special effects , but still strangely 'indie ' , the movie has a unique sensibility ... Story was originally conceived as an episode of `` Tales From the Crypt , '' and that is perhaps what it should have remained , as the thinness of the conceit shows throughout , painfully so in the first half . 	Boasting top-notch special effects and exuberant direction from Peter Jackson , The Frighteners is visually striking but tonally uneven .
the other woman 2011 Resembles a number of recent Woody Allen pictures , except without the quality of jokes that leaven even Allen 's worst explorations of this turf . As good as it is at times , The Other Woman never nears greatness ; it lacks the mettle and focus to push beyond well-groomed melodrama . Not completely without redeeming features , but there 's no compelling reason not to just wait until it 's out on DVD . More affectingly honest about contemporary , complicated parenthood than a traditional chick flick love story . Kudrow pulls off the [ most ] difficult , crucial scene . I did n't like a single one of these insufferable narcissists , the kid included . Right now , Portman commands the cineplexes as surrogate for misguided , self-pitying filmmakers . Natalie Portman almost manages to rise above the overt complexities and heavy obviousness of Don Roos ' take on thwarted mother love . It 's a sluggish , shrill picture that deals with significant issues of loss and betrayal in the clumsiest manner imaginable . In lesser , more obvious hands , it could have become a drippy , manipulative Lifetime movie . Even if there are times when it does threaten to seem like such , writer-director Don Roos and his adroit cast never let it cross over . The film tacks on a lot of issues and then it never quite follows any of them through . 	Natalie Portman and Lisa Kudrow deliver fine performances in The Other Woman , but they 're muted by Don Roos ' clumsy direction and cluttered , melodramatic script .
eagle vs shark The film 's absurdist dialogue is consistently funny . Sorely lacks is a genuine sense of humanity . Daft , sweet , awkward and amusingly rude . A romantic comedy where one of the participants treats the other like crap . A movie that , in its static presentation and gangly , geek characters , bears such a resemblance to Jared Hess ' [ Napoleon Dynamite ] that -- gosh ! -- you 'd think that Hess might need to have his attorneys go after a royalty check or two . Eagle vs Shark is a quirky New Zealand comedy which unravels with rather less off-beat joie de vivre than Napoleon Dynamite did . It 's a tale that reduces angst , not to mention love , to a generational tic . Has eccentricity in spades , and a winning performance in lead actress Loren Horsley , yet does n't quite add up to the sum of its parts . [ Actors ] Horsley and Clement are delightful , and the film provides enough laughs . It becomes increasingly difficult to care one way or another about characters who act like they have undergone frontal lobotomies . 	Though there are frequent moments of wit and mordant humor , Eagle vs Shark needs more to distinguish itself from other precious , Napoleon Dynamite-ish comedies .
killer joe Lovely to see Friedkin on such mischievous form and McConaughey finally revealing his dark side . Only the faint-hearted or KFC kitchen staff should give it a miss . Friedkin creates a twisted work of trailer-park noir that both surprises and horrifies , and gives us one more reason to call 2012 the year of McConaughey . Friedkin 's twisty-turny career , 47 years and running , shows no signs of slackening . It 's the audience 's compact with the author that makes Killer Joe , for all its wry depravity , one of Friedkin 's safest efforts . To its own detriment , William Friedkin 's splattery , southern gothic return to the screen seeks to amuse as well as shake and stir . That everything should go wrong is no surprise , but the wrong turns are taken so viciously -- Gershon , in particular , is appallingly treated , in closeup -- that they lead the film , adapted from the play by Tracy Letts , to the brink of abusive farce . Killer Joe is a white-hot fever dream of a film . A toxic swill of sex and violence , Joe is mordantly funny , tantalizing and , ultimately , shocking . It 's the sort of funny that encompasses both definitions of the word and that is watched , as often as not , with clenched teeth and the temptation to cover ones eyes fighting with the much stronger temptation to see what happens next . There is truly never a dull moment but that 's not the same thing as good ones . 	Violent , darkly comic , and full of strong performances , Killer Joe proves William Friedkin has n't lost his touch , even if the plot may be too lurid for some .
the imitation game Although well-crafted and performed , The Imitation Game proves to be much to conventional a film about an unconventional , remarkable and tragic life . It 's hard to make the workings of the scientific mind dramatic , but unfortunately The Imitation Game does n't even try . Knightley here gives a mature performance that matches Cumberbatch 's in commitment . To feel gripped , on edge and moved in such a short period of time is of real commendation to Tyldum , who takes his audience through the motions in this unforgettable piece . Turing is kept tweedy and neutered , as closeted in celluloid as he was in real life . Deftly directed by Morten Tyldum ( Headhunters ) , the film does a great job building tension as these eggheads bond in a common cause against the Nazis . Yet as a cinematic celebration of the work Turing and his team did , the film is heavily qualified . There 's an algorithm for making an Oscar-ready prestige picture - and `` The Imitation Game '' follows it obsessively . Given the liberties the film takes , it 's surprising that it refuses to penetrate Alan Turing 's carnality and allow Benedict Cumberbatch to truly wrestle with the torment of the man 's sexuality . The Imitation Game walks a fine line in making the familiar effective , also reflecting A Beautiful Mind at points . Turing is a tougher role to play than it might once have been , but Cumberbatch burrows beneath the surface to reveal someone with machine-like logic locked in a soulful struggle against an inhuman society . 	With an outstanding starring performance from Benedict Cumberbatch illuminating its fact-based story , The Imitation Game serves as an eminently well-made entry in the `` prestige biopic '' genre .
shrek forever after DreamWorks and the unlovable ogre lose the plot . It 's a neat enough way of closing the book -- and one hopes it is closed now . An improvement over the last film ... I 've sat through four Shrek movies . Christ , the things I do for you people . Directed with zest by Mike Mitchell ( from a script by Josh Klausner and Darren Lemke ) and shot in 3D , this final Shrek sequel has plenty of verve . Shrek Forever After is not that bad . That 's what we 've come to ... evaluating a multi-million dollar summer tent-pole release as 'not that bad . ' Brilliant animation , 3D magic and a subversive script filled with quirky humour transports us to Swamp Heaven for this perfect Shrek final chapter . It 's a whirlwind of a film This `` final chapter '' does n't try too hard % u2014 save for the finale % u2014 to become an after-school special , the way the dreadfully dull Shrek the Third did . Shrek Forever After is a very mediocre affair , with crummy 3D and a real lack of laughs . The winking nonstop pop-culture references are as annoying as ever , but the witch army is cool , and there 's no denying that Donkey , Puss in Boots , the Gingerbread Man , Pinocchio and the other supporting characters are pretty funny . 	While not without its moments , Shrek Forever After too often feels like a rote rehashing of the franchise 's earlier entries .
1189844-the bank job Director Roger Donaldson keeps the suspense crackling . By the end , you 'll want to know more about a heist that literally did shake the empire . Acting and directing are consistently high caliber , but relatively de rigeur for the lot . As some characters brazenly assert colonial imperatives , race and class commentary abound and `` The Bank Job '' eventually takes a vividly violent turn . But its subtext of history 's long con does n't keep the film from hitting great-heist high points . Bustles along to its central theft , then treads water until ( it ) can map a proper end game . A smart , assured work from filmmaking pros blessed with a sensational cast . One of best in the heist genre I 've seen in some time . Donaldson 's film , about a dangerous crime during a tumultuous time period , suffers from a filmmaker utterly uninterested in dangerous filmmaking . The story is filled with new dimensions that separate it from a run-of-the-mill heist flick . Tautly mounted , it all looks authentically old fashioned , and there are a few nuggets of amusing dialogue amid the occasional violence , sexual debauchery , political corruption and overall hedonistic atmosphere . ( The Bank Job is ) efficient without being pedestrian , tweaking the suspense here and there to add the proper amount of intrigue to the elements . 	Well cast and crisply directed , The Bank Job is a thoroughly entertaining British heist thriller .
10004659-arthur This is no committee-engineered product designed to boost first-quarter profits ; Besson actually wants to be here . I 'm not sure what creeped me out most in Luc Besson 's `` Arthur and the Invisibles , '' the awful animation or Madonna lending her voice to a `` child '' princess . While technically polished and adequately executed Arthur , like most of Besson 's movies , is a strangely soulless experience . Is it time for director Luc Besson to become invisible too ? The story is n't terribly original , but Besson gives it a fuel-injected energy ... The adventure turns out to be a drag . When Arthur goes on a ruby hunt , the movie shifts to animation , and he meets the Minimoys , fairy creatures who look like those troll dolls that become inexplicably popular every 20 years . In a year when a lot of big-screen animation felt like it came rolling off the video game assembly line , a little originality goes a long way . The story [ Besson ] co-wrote for Arthur is workable , even clever at times , but the visualization of the Minimoys and their crib is weird and almost aggressively off-putting -- like an episode of When CGI Attacks ! With its Day-Glo colors and fast pace , this $ 80 million live action/animated film may be the first acid trip for kids . Highmore has been given a free pass from Besson to act his little heart out , and this gifted kid has decided to use the Dakota Fanning 3000 method of predictable , robotic child acting . It 's disappointing to witness . 	Arthur wastes its big-name voice talent on a predictable script and substandard CG animation .
serpico A remarkable record of one man 's rebellion against the sort of sleaziness and second-rateness that has affected so much American life , from the ingredients of its hamburgers to the ethics of its civil servants and politicians . Lumet and screenwriters Waldo Salt and Norman Wexler ca n't do anything but skim rapidly over the surface of their tale . an acting tour de force for Al Pacino ... Lumet effectively establishes a real sense of time and place ... One very brave , socially critical film that asks important questions . Imbued with mythic and even religious dimensions , Al Pacino 's resourceful , Oscar-nominated performance takes Lumet 's quinessential 1970s New York film beyond the realm of a cop-corruption drama . ... one of the films that brought this new realism to the screen portrait of American cops with its realistic portraits ... and systemic failure and flawed , human characters behind the badges . Sidney Lumet 's direction adeptly combines gritty action and thought-provoking comment . `` Serpico '' is a candid and gritty police expose film that juxtaposes systematic police graft with the personal toll it takes on the man who attempts to blow the lid on the crooked activities that surround him . A virtuoso performance by Al Pacino and some expert location work by Sidney Lumet add up to a tour de force genre piece that transcends the supercop conventions to create a moving , engrossing portrait of Frank Serpico . 	Serpico is an engrossing , immediate depiction of 1973 New York and includes a turn by a young Pacino that 's both ferocious and career changing .
gone girl David Fincher brings depth and beauty to a supreme slice of genre-bending pulp fiction . An entertaining movie with an intriguingly intricate plot , but it 's really nothing more than a slick , well-manufactured potboiler that ends up more as an expression of the culture it depicts rather than serious commentary , or satire , on it . Deliciously dark and utterly gripping , this tightly-coiled teaser delivers disturbing answers to some very awkward questions . `` Gone Girl '' is suspenseful and entertaining -- its 2-1/2-hour running time breezes by -- but what sticks out on first viewing is how perfectly Fincher has cast it . Hey ... the marriage in this movie is a lot better than many I 've witnessed . Gone Girl is a layered film experience that can be appreciated on multiple levels - with an intriguing central mystery , rounded characters , and sharp social commentary . Oh yes , it 's very much by the book . But when the book is a brilliantly crafted page turner , that 's a good thing . Perry , Patrick Harris and others all join Affleck and Pike with tremendous performances . Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross once again create the perfect score to accompany Fincher 's mood . [ Gone Girl ] is something of a marvel , a disturbing , one-of-a-kind creature as confoundingly dangerous as a poisonous snake equipped at either end with a head , forked tongue and fangs . Smartly shot , detailed , and performed , it 's a designer-made studio film that dares to be about big , difficult stuff . 	Dark , intelligent , and stylish to a fault , Gone Girl plays to director David Fincher 's sick strengths while bringing the best out of stars Ben Affleck and Rosamund Pike .
in search of a midnight kiss Midnight Kiss is one of those movies that gradually charms the viewer into strong identification with initially off-putting characters . Mumblecore to the core -- a loose , quirky , minimal indie . A reasonably humorous and even tender portrait of 21st century dating by a filmmaker who seems a Woody Allen/Judd Apatow wannabe . In looking for L.A. 's historical past amidst its sometimes squalid present , Holdridge has achieved a minor miracle in making the city a romantic backdrop . Holdridge and his cast are going to get a lot of attention on Wilshire Boulevard . ... a radiant romantic comedy In Search of a Midnight Kiss overcomes patches of overwriting to end up as a film well worth watching , and Mr. Holdridge as a writer-director to be remembered for future reference . Writer/director Alex Holdridge maintains the intrigue of Wilson and Vivian 's dance through a combination of naturalistic dialogue and a magical-realist style . Alex Holdridge has written and directed a sweet , funny little indie movie . Shot in black and white and edited extremely well , Kiss is funny and consistently credible . 	Funny , quirky , and bittersweet , In Search of a Midnight Kiss is a romantic comedy with a heart and a brain -- and stands as a sharp debut for director Alex Holdridge .
saturday night fever Dates as badly as the clothes . Saturday Night Fever is wonderfully honest and completely accurate when it comes to depicting that stagnant environment that keeps young people like Tony pinned down . John Badham 's film ( his best to date ) , a zeitgeist picture that captures the disco subculture of the 1970s like no other work , features a star-making performance from John Travolta who dominates every frame . This is one tough picture - bristling and raw , with an aggression more attuned to angry-young-man British kitchen sink dramas than Hollywood 's quickie music-fad cash-ins . It holds up beautifully , mainly because it puts the characters and their flaws first and the disco nightlife second . Travolta remains an amazing , graceful presence on the dance floor . Most of the plot elements could have been eliminated in favor of more dance action . Today mostly regarded as disco camp , Saturday Night Fever should rank as one of the great American films . A very intelligent character study that just happens to have some of the coolest dance scenes ever made . Mr. Travolta is deft and vibrant , and he never condescends to the character , not even in a scene that has Tony and Stephanie arguing about whose Romeo and Juliet it is , Zeffirelli 's or Shakespeare 's . It 's as cool as it gets , but it 's also smart and well crafted , and the soundtrack is one of the best ever . Definitively a must-see . 	Boasting a smart , poignant story , a classic soundtrack , and a starmaking performance from John Travolta , Saturday Night Fever ranks among the finest dramas of the 1970s .
summer of sam It 's easily Lee 's most accomplished and satisfying movie since Malcolm X . Summer of Sam is a confused , jumbled movie ! The disappointment with Summer of Sam is not that it 's exploitative ; it 's just difficult to figure out what it 's supposed to be about . Lee is a powerful filmmaker who certainly knows how to have an impact on an audience , but those who survive his ministrations are likely to wonder if in this case the battle was worth the bruises . Someone kick that soapbox out from under Spike already . This ultimately disappoints , but it is good to see Lee branch out into subjects which do n't immediately lend themselves to his single-minded politicizing . This movie is constantly in motion , spinning from one level of the story to another . Lee does a superb job ! A sprawling wasteland of inflammatory tabloid moviemaking , it 's more white-hot and frenetic and honestly emotional than any other movie this year . Bravely weird , it shows sex and violence exploding , without explanation or definition , at a time when people felt out of control , simultaneously seduced and menaced . These complications make it a troubling , unforgettable experience . 	Spike Lee offers intense visuals but his storytelling feels crowded and overambitious .
infinitely polar bear Engaging and enigmatic , it 's an offbeat , feel-good film that tugs at your heartstrings ... . A personal project that features both scars and sweetness , Infinitely Polar Bear is bolstered by excellent acting and full of rich emotional detail . Could be subtitled `` the lighter side of manic depression '' . Ruffalo is terrific , and the film is ultimately great family entertainment . Forbes dug deep into her family history for her debut as a writer-director , and `` Polar Bear '' is a beautiful story , warm and generous of spirit . Wrapped in a comic playfulness , some may accuse Forbes of trivialising the realities of living with a mentally ill individual , but the storytelling always feels rooted in honesty . [ Ruffalo 's ] gleefully over-the-top performance ... anchors a picture on a potentially difficult subject that instead is content to be a manipulative crowd-pleaser , but a moderately engaging one . The film 's saving grace is the cast , especially perhaps the two girls , Imogene Wolodarsky and the younger Ashley Aufderheide , who deliver vibrant and authentic performances , charming and real and utterly convincing The setup for `` Infinitely Polar Bear '' is as odd as the story is heartwarming . Deeply personal and filled with love , Maya Forbes ' Infinitely Polar Bear is nonetheless a hard movie to watch - hard to watch comfortably . Forbes ' sweetness of tone and wise casting makes `` Infinitely Polar Bear '' irresistible . 	Infinitely Polar Bear handles its thorny themes with a somewhat troublesomely light touch , but Mark Ruffalo 's complex performance keeps the drama solidly grounded .
our song Honest , positive look at urban teens with mature themes . Rich with scenes of affection , anger and reconciliation , along with moments of unfeigned humor . A low-budget , low-income slice-of-life movie oozing with community atmosphere and authentic affinity ... The power of Our Song finally comes through in its dozens of mesmerizing moments . Pretentiously paced picture that tosses out a few big societal problems ( drugs , shoplifting and , most of all , teen pregnancy ) as nonchalantly as turning on a light switch . An exemplary coming-of-age tale not least because it so gracefully transcends its genre . An honest and compelling movie about the friendship between three girls in a high school band . The realism is so effective it feels perilously close to eavesdropping . The kind of movie that might be capable of realistically reflecting teens ' lives to other teens . The film is an unpretentious slice of life that allows its characters to maintain their dignity . 	Graced with such a realistic feel that it resembles a documentary , Our Song is a sensitive portrayal of three teenage girls .
into the wild Overly romanticized . Into the Wild takes your heart and shakes it , offering inspiration , exasperation and blunt realization in a true story of one young man 's dream and nightmare . Into the Wild is especially memorable in the manner in which it offers no absolutes . Hirsch may be the talk of Into the Wild , but Penn should be commended for putting together such a strong cast . A visually stunning modern-day epic in which the protagonist , unfortunately , remains a blur . A story of youthful narcissism that never neglects the poignant humanity at its core , Into the Wild speaks to the yearnings and frailties in all of us . The role of the rebellious adventurer intent on doing things his own way is the kind of role Sean Penn might have taken on himself twenty five years ago , but Penn makes his mark this time as screenwriter and director A near miss by director/screenwriter Penn when he mistakes a self-absorbed college student for a hero of the counter culture It 's a bit heavy-handed , but ultimately a rewarding watch . Darkly observant , the plot makes great art . 	With his sturdy cast and confident direction , Sean Penn has turned a complex work of non-fiction like Into the Wild into an accessible and poignant character study .
flying scotsman If you like sports films , this is worth the bucks . Scotsman not only lacks vision , a true sense of how to mesh Obree 's sporting triumphs and personal setbacks , but it also lacks passion . What it needs , as strange and tacky as it may sound , is a bit more madness . Despite some over-egged cinematic touches , this true story of ambition and obsession is so powerfully engaging that it really deserves a wide audience . Never quite manages to whip its disparate story elements into an emotionally moving whole . It 's an underdog story with teeth . Even for audiences who normally would not be interested in cycling , The Flying Scotsman is a good choice , because this film is about so much more . Miller has given us an appealing , if unusual , protagonist who leads us to cheer him on in life . This modest mix of inspiration , humor , and near tragedy manages to be suspenseful , even though we pretty much know the outcome . ... a real gem of an inspirational sports movie . Cycling drama does n't quite race to the finish . Why pay to see someone cycling when they do it on the pavement for nothing ? 	The Flying Scotsman 's too-brisk pacing reduces the scale of cyclist Graham Obree 's accomplishments while not uncovering what makes him tick .
the class The Class simply exists as it is , a dispatch from a familiar world that has still never seemed to real . How could anyone not love Laurent Cantet 's The Class ( Entre les murs ) ? Last year 's Golden Palm winner is the best film about schoolteaching I have seen : a wise , funny cry of helplessness before the tsunami of anarchy that can be school-age adolescence . By rough estimate , maybe 80 percent of the movie consists of these student-teacher slanging matches , but it 's engrossing . It 's a remarkably intelligent film , which adroitly portrays a microcosm of society through a high school classroom . The performances are so natural that you could easily mistake The Class for a documentary . Under Cantet 's microscope , the school is a junction of urban lives . Raw and realistic , The Class picks apart the competing interests that hold kids , teachers and parents at loggerheads . One of the best school pics ever made . A hybrid that is so naturalistic as to be uber-documentary in its reflection of the observations within . A lovely , exhilarating work about the ways in which failure and frustration can open the pathways through which we make sense out of life . By casting aside rose-tinted spectacles and *Blackboard Jungle*-style gritty-delinquency clichs , *The Class* pays so much more respect to teachers , and to pupils . Goodbye Mr Chips , indeed . 	Energetic and bright , this hybrid of documentary style and dramatic plotting looks at the present and future of France through the interactions of a teacher and his students in an inner city high school .
corpse bride Gloomy , but in a beautiful , compelling way . In fact , the visuals sell the film because the story is entertaining but extremely lightweight . You 'd be hard pressed to find a film with this level of visual and storytelling potency this year . This vibrantly imaginative mix of horror and humor puts the f-u-n in funeral . As fun as the film occasionally is , it just plays like a compilation of greatest hits . Another visually witty stop-motion animation piece that mingles the gleefully macabre and the sweetly sentimental ... a winningly lively treat . I 've seen it all before already , in Nightmare [ Before Christmas ] ... It 's enough to make you wonder how limited Burton 's imagination might actually be ... The film probably wo n't spawn a cottage industry at Hot Topic , but its angst-ridden story of love - romantic and platonic - is likely to resonate stronger with shoppers . All in all , it 's what you would ordinarily call an uplifting experience . Even though Burton has fun with the never-ending Halloween of his imagination , he takes the emotions and desires of his characters seriously . It 's Burton by rote , a by-the-numbers idea of what a Tim Burton fairy tale should be . 	As can be expected from a Tim Burton movie , Corpse Bride is whimsically macabre , visually imaginative , and emotionally bittersweet .
soloist A duet , with two master performers collaborating in absorbing harmony . Joe Wright , who did a brilliant job with Atonement , powerfully reveals the terrible treatment of America 's homeless community . Thankfully , there 's no contrived Hollywood ending but you ca n't help thinking this is more a three-minute wonder than a dramatic symphony . The story surely is interesting , but in this form , not terribly enlightening . If the movie is trying to help us understand what schizophrenia is , it fails in the attempt . A genuinely moving story is wrung dry by filmmaking that strains to punch every emotional plot point . Solid performances and some edgy insight ca n't quite rescue it , although the extraordinary true events retain real power . There 's no crescendo in Joe Wright 's drama . As a film , even in the hands of Atonement director Joe Wright and with talents such as the amazing Downey Jnr , Foxx and Keener , our emotional experience is strangely muted Although ambitious in its lyrical presentation , filmmaker Joe Wright 's The Soloist plays a stale tune of cliched melancholy musical chairs . The movie bears a close resemblance to a slightly better `` Resurrecting the Champ , '' which revolved around boxing rather than music . The filmmakers should have taken a few cues from `` Marley & Me , '' which had a sweet and endearing quality while employing a ... 	Though it features strong performances by its lead players , a lack of narrative focus prevents The Soloist from hitting its mark .
coraline The results are simply astonishing . Selick has created a richly detailed , beautifully realised set of parallel worlds and allows us to become as lost as Coraline herself in and between their exquisite textures . Regardless of its esteemed pedigree of writer Neil Gaiman and director/animator Henry Selick ( `` The Nightmare Before Christmas '' ) this creepy gothic kids ' movie does n't approach anything that the Brother Grimm cooked up on a off day . It 's one of the best fantasy stories on the screen in some time , and possibly the most kid-friendly horror movie of all time . You 're on your own when it comes to knowing how tolerant your children are for a good scare . Coraline is that rare movie that can be debated by psychiatrists as avidly as it is by third-graders . The movie is beautifully crafted , but like the same director 's other stop-motion feature , Tim Burton 's The Nightmare Before Christmas , it will mystify and in some cases terrify younger children . The film combines stunning visuals - there are scenes of incredible beauty - with good old-fashioned storytelling that is funny , inventive and at times scary . Destined to be a classic . Parental Content Review If you have a 10-and-up who 's drawn to alt-comics , smart books , dark clothing , and general pop culture subversion , the movie will be his or her Wonderland . An eye-popping animated extravaganza . probably the most refreshing thing I 've seen in months and easily the first great film of 2009 	With its vivid stop-motion animation combined with Neil Gaiman 's imaginative story , Coraline is a film that 's both visually stunning and wondrously entertaining .
no one knows about persian cats Ghobadi 's yarn is loosely ravelled , but the songs are likable . A tribute to the courage and creativity of Tehran 's underground indie-bands and their rebellion against a law forbidding them to play rock music . Bahman Ghobadi 's documentary-style drama has an undeniably important message and provides a glimpse of Iran 's underground music scene that 's both interesting and informative . Moves forward with a carefree appreciation for music and the people who make it , and all the while , bitter reality is waiting in the background , waiting to take over . A winning and celebratory look at Tehran 's distressed rock musicians . It might have been a better idea for the makers of No One Knows About Persian Cats to make a straightforward documentary . The film establishes a verit intimacy that is often little interested in acknowledging the rigidity of the documentary/fiction divide . If the whole enterprise seems underdeveloped , that 's obviously in part a symptom of the system it gently but resoundingly critiques . Bahman Ghobadi 's exploration into the world of underground music in Tehran is a welcome antidote to the blas , pedestrian , apathetic state of the music industry in the West . Kind of like John Carney 's 2006 hardscrabble charmer Once , only with morality police and sharia law . 	Bringing a dose of humor and a fresh perspective to a very serious subject , No One Knows About Persian Cats is an exhilarating , quietly powerful tribute to the courage of Iran 's underground musicians .
searching for sugar man `` Searching for Sugar Man '' is a valentine to every artist who feels like he toils away in obscurity , unsure of or unaware of the impact he might make on the world . Rodriguez 's life story is only part of what makes `` Searching for Sugar Man '' such a revelation . Fascinating music doc makes you believe the unbelievable . Singer-songwriter Rodriguez was supposed to have been the next Bob Dylan . What happened ? Swedish documentary maker Malik Bendjelloul 's stirring , surprising and deeply touching film has the answer . Though manipulative in its storytelling and structure , Searching For Sugar Man ultimately earns its happy ending by alchemizing pain into transcendent beauty . As a documentary , `` Searching for Sugar Man '' falls short , but as an enormously satisfying feel-good story it hits the mark . The narrative , as it is so dependent on vague and redundant talking heads , is disappointingly shallow and trivial ... thanks to the producers the storytelling is engaging . Poignant , touching and inspiring , even if it does n't tell you quite as much as you 'd like to know about Sixto Rodriquez , to give him his full name . An absorbing and uplifting doc that rivals Catfish for sheer stranger-than-fiction thrills . Great soundtrack , too . Unlike most nonfiction films , which tend to focus on uncovering misdeed and outrage , this one leaves you joyous and moved..You 'll come away with a lump in your throat . 	A fascinating portrait of a forgotten musical pioneer , Searching for Sugar Man is by turns informative and mysterious .
saving mr banks 2013 Travers hated what Disney did to her creation , and she would have hated what his studio has now done to her . It does skew far darker than I ever could have hoped for , and in that way ends up becoming something halfway profound . The project is well-cast and sharply assembled . But like a lot of recent Disney projects , it 's more professional than inspiring . Saving Mr. Banks is a confection and should be viewed as such . In that regard , it works admirably , which is all you can reasonably ask . Hanks takes to Walt like a pair of cosy slippers , but it 's Thompson who adds layers to a classy but predictable slice of Disney schmaltz . Utterly charming , frequently funny and powerfully emotional comedy-drama with a most delightful script , spit-spot-on production design work and wondrous , award-worthy performances from Emma Thompson and Tom Hanks . Earmarked as a masterpiece , but it does n't fully deliver on its promise . A fun and often poignant film but how much do you trust this story ? This is a good looking film with strong performances and a rich musical score by Thomas Newman ( 'Skyfall ' ) . but there are certain narrative and structural problems that hold it back . The sap does n't run too thick , although it does run , and the movie certainly has a patented Disney upbeat feel much of the time . It 's more a spoonful of sugar than medicine for aging baby boomer 's souls . 	Aggressively likable and sentimental to a fault , Saving Mr. Banks pays tribute to the Disney legacy with excellent performances and sweet , high-spirited charm .
serenity The action sequences , it must be said , are intense , and the film is fun , if you can swallow all the hokum . Serenity is a brash , funny , action-packed bit of sci-fi ecstasy . A nice gift for Firefly fans , but not quite as good for the rest of us . He 's [ Joss Whedon ] interested in relationships , and he makes the smart choice to create drama through character development rather than action . I have no basis from which to judge [ Firefly 's ] big-screen incarnation Serenity except as a stand-alone movie , and in that respect it works quite well . An A-grade experience . The writing is impeccable , the chemistry among the cast is fantastic , the performances are great , and the action is non-stop ! An exciting , thoughtful big-screen adventure that employs most of the same characters and actors as the television series . This genre picture is still a thrillingly original science fiction creation . Joss Whedon 's unassuming science-fiction adventure is superior in almost every respect to George Lucas 's aggressively more ambitious screen entertainments . A perfectly acceptable elongated episode of a television series projected onto a screen several sizes too large for it ... more pretender than real contender . 	Snappy dialogue and goofy characters make this Wild Wild West soap opera in space fun and adventurous .
howard the duck Yeah , like The Phantom Menace was worse than this . ... a hopelessly uneven and needlessly frenetic piece of work that 's unlikely to hold much appeal for viewers over a certain age ... The sad fact is that the duck gets lost in what becomes a special effects film suspiciously reminiscent of Ghostbusters . Actually suprisingly underrated for its ... Oh , who am I kidding ? A goofy disaster of a movie . For all those who cottoned to the charm of the comic books , the duck stops here . Not even worth a sarcastic , duck-based pun . Diabolical . The duck does n't fly , but did anyone ever really think it would ? Howard the Duck is n't quite the booming nightmare its reputation suggests , but I defy most viewers out there in DVD land to sit through the entire feature without maintaining a sweaty , alert finger on the fast-forward button . It really is that bad . This is a genuine clinker . 	While it has its moments , Howard the Duck suffers from an uneven tone and mediocre performances .
pursuit of happyness the movie aims to be inspirational , startling and poignant . It does n't always succeed , although it 's always watchable because of the sincerity in the Smiths ' performances . How is it that movies 'inspired by a real story ' often feel more fake than those fully embedded in the realm of fiction ? Makes Working Girl look like a whiny brat . It 's a jiggy Secret of My Success . It 's like the best very special episode of Fresh Prince of Bel Air . Somebody stop me . The Pursuit of Happyness speaks eloquently to the anxieties of our own time , when staying afloat , let alone movin ' on up , has rarely been tougher . What The Pursuit of Happyness does better than most by-your-bootstraps films is to make us root for the protagonist as if he were our own flesh and blood . Hokey title , but sometimes movie is good . Makes you work for its climax if not its message . Bonding convincingly ( as you might expect ) with his own son on screen , Smith delivers his most compelling performance since Ali . You may come out rebuking yourself for your laziness or your choices or your fatalism or your fears , but you will come out glad you saw this movie . Few films so convincingly portray the titanic struggle that some people face day in and day out just to survive . 	Will Smith 's heartfelt performance elevates The Pursuit of Happyness above mere melodrama .
in america The Bolger sisters are the show . It 's as though everything else is the packaging for the gift of their performance . a little bit of magic The American family is made up of many , many such stories . Brilliantly acted , well directed drama that 's both extremely moving and full of warmth and humour . Sheridan should also be applauded for keeping the film going at a nice pace , sprinkling it with many lighter moments , as well as one of the more suspenseful scenes from any movie last year . In America is another gem from this great Irish director , and it deserves to be seen no matter what country you 're from . The three miracles that occur over the course of Jim Sheridan 's In America pale next to the miracle of the movie itself . ... truly one of the richest movie experiences this year . A classic story of losing and finding faith told with heart , humor and emotional heft . It 's refreshing that nearly all the tears here have been well-earned , with material that feels all too real , all too vivid and all the more moving as a result . 	A rich and moving story about an immigrant family adjusting to life in New York .
the perfect crime 2005 Like the Ferris wheel that serves as the setting for one of its climactic scenes , El Crimen Perfecto is a bright , gaudy and tremendously satisfying ride . While it may occasionally stumble on its way to busting Hollywood clichs , the lunatic tone suits the subject matter perfectly . Iglesia 's comic cautionary tale observes the monsters created by `` every man for himself '' attitudes . De la Iglesia is a mercilessly agile talent , turning his department store into its own little film-noir cityscape , only with better lighting and perfume samples . El Crimen Perfecto has energy , color , spirit and lively performances , but what it does not have are very many laughs . There 's not enough good material to fill the film 's overlong 105 minutes . It plays like one of those minor European oddball comedies of the 1970s ... neither realistic nor particularly clever but making up for that with a certain charm . Spanish director de la Iglesia continues his streak of caustic social satires framed as send-ups of Hollywood genre clichs . An outrageous comedy of errors set at a Madrid department store . A luscious ode to Latin machismo and the fragile state of the male ego . 	If you like your comedies wicked and pitch-black , El Crimen Perfecto delivers without flinching .
magdalene sisters The Magdalene Asylums really existed , and Mullan has captured their pious horror with a humanity that burns away any hint of exploitation . Mullan has crafted a gripping yarn , full of bitter humour and ironic twists and turns . A superb film . Two hours of , `` This is wrong ! '' can be difficult to bear . What makes The Magdalene Sisters much better than a censorious browbeating is the girls themselves ... Blistering and brilliant work of true-life moral agitprop . A stirring , emotionally galvanizing film , not only due to its shattering subject matter but thanks to Mullan 's spot-on eye for casting and fluid , uncoercive style . A gutsy dramatization of a particular institutional abuse of the Catholic Church in 20th Century Ireland . Both a masterpiece and a holy hell . The real-life story behind The Magdalene Sisters is harrowing enough without writer-director Peter Mullan 's melodramatic embellishments . A powerful piece of agitprop . 	A typical women-in-prision film made untypical because it 's based on real events .
headhunters Suspenseful , wickedly funny and clever , Headhunters offers more bang for your buck than most modern crime thrillers . A nice blend of Scandinavian sophistication and Hollywood slickness , Headhunters is an entertaining Nordic noir achievement ... Always deliriously entertaining . A brisk , violent tour of the dangerous parts of Norway . `` Headhunters '' is n't a pretty film , and it does n't always entirely make sense , but it races along like a man chased by killers . Hennie 's hangdog hero makes this a perversely entertaining ride , even at its most relentless and - particularly for Roger Brown - punishing . By film 's end , we 're deep into Coen brothers territory , with an extra splash of Sam Raimi-level gore . See this version now before Hollywood spoils the fun . Headhunters works best when punishing its lead excessively , continuously , and for no apparent reason . The good guy in the Norwegian `` Headhunters '' looks like a bad guy , and the bad guy looks like a good guy . And that 's just one of the ways this dazzling movie messes with us . 	Grisly , twisty , and darkly comic , Headhunters is an exhilaratingly oddball take on familiar thriller elements .
i o u s a Packed with facts , figures and the testimony of policy experts , the film is no wallow in wonkiness , but a surprisingly sprightly tough-love lesson in fiscal responsibility . Here 's the bottom line , kids . The United States is probably going to go broke during your lifetimes . Fending off the global repo man Bottom line : The party 's over . There 's no such thing as a free lunch . America itself may be a bubble . It makes a very good effort at trying to cover this enormous , important , complex issue of the national debt in less than an hour and a half . this movie makes a devastating case for the consequence of our current `` rob Peter to pay Paul '' budgetary shell game . Though the filmmaking is playful at times , the film is essentially 90 percent message , 10 percent movie . Then again , sometimes a message is important enough to make other considerations seem irrelevant . A solid informational piece on a fiscal reality than can really be called a national emergency . An informative and frightening documentary about America 's inability to pay as it goes and the looming consequences of this shortsightedness . This solid doc reminds us how unsustainable the current American economy is . 	A potent and lithely constructed documentary about America 's financial crisis , I.O.U.S.A grabs you with figures but holds you with irreverent wit .
funny girl Given how she grew into perhaps the most annoyingly egocentric entertainer in all the world , it 's difficult to imagine that Barbra Streisand was once an ingenue . A fine movie musical and a nice reminder of the time when Streisand was a talent rather than a 'phenomenon ' . [ Streisand gives ] a natural , unforced performance , easily one of the three or four best Best Actresses in Oscar history . Streisand is stunning , but the film is a trial , particularly when the music disappears somewhere around the 90-minute mark and all that 's left is leaden melodrama . ... the quintessential star vehicle for its leading lady , the 1968 movie that made Ms. Streisand famous . Now more than ever , the time may be right for 'People Who Need People , ' one of the many fine tunes that punctuate Funny Girl . Barbra Streisand in her Hollywood debut makes a marked impact . Well worth watching , even if most later Streisand movies are n't . You will have made your mind up about Babs one way or the other , but for the rare uninitiated , this is a fine introduction to her talents . Songs like `` Do n't Rain on My Parade '' live triumphantly on . 	Barbara Streisand elevates this otherwise rote melodramatic musical with her ultra-memorable star turn as Fanny Brice .
dave This film is a delightful social fable which celebrates the Good Samaritan idealism of an ordinary citizen who actually makes a difference in Washington In spite of this sogginess , and despite a self-congratulatory , do-gooder streak that the film discovers within Dave , this comedy remains bright and buoyant much of the way through . Nothing but entertaining - a sheer delight from beginning to end . Kline is a marvel . Dave has been directed by Ivan Reitman in a refreshingly restrained fashion -- there are plenty of quiet passages , rare for American movies these days -- which compliments Kevin Kline 's wonderful work as well . After the promisingly nasty beginning , the filmmakers settle into a sort of campaign mode , lulling and flattering the audience with a fairy-tale vision of the common man 's victory over the Washington establishment . A charming political comedy . Solid `` imposter '' film with Kline tailor-made as a presidential look-alike getting the chance to play the White House . A buoyant comedy in the Capra tradition . Offers feel-good guffaws . Capraesque without being cloying . 	Ivan Reitman 's refreshingly earnest political comedy benefits from an understated , charming script and a breezy performance by Kevin Kline .
how to train your dragon 2 A visual stunner with aerial sequences that will take your breath away , and many of the dogfights ( dragonfights ? ) have that Star Wars sizzle . In the bigger is better world of Hollywood sequels , How to Train Your Dragon 2 comes up short . It lacks the novelty of the original and tries too hard to be `` about '' something more than fun . Continues a very compelling mythology I hope carries in to the third film . Its thundering air-war sequences , with hordes of dragon-riding fighters swarming into battle , have the swooping , gliding kineticism of vintage newsreels of World War II dogfights . With writer-director Dean DeBlois back at the helm , the sequel feels like a solid continuation of the first movie . Not only does this second movie match the charm , wit , animation skill and intelligent storytelling of the original , I think it even exceeds it . A solid sequel sets its goals and meets them , but a movie as elating as How to Train Your Dragon 2 soars beyond conventional objectives and upends audience expectations . Graded on the animated-sequel curve , `` How to Train Your Dragon 2 '' does n't come off too badly . Offers some stunningly beautiful sequences and an engaging , if at times quite dark , story line . It 's a rare sequel - animated or otherwise - that expands the story of its predecessor without rehashing it , and an even rarer family-oriented film that manages to be fun and mature without being condescending to its audience . [ It ] does both . 	Exciting , emotionally resonant , and beautifully animated , How to Train Your Dragon 2 builds on its predecessor 's successes just the way a sequel should .
10009493-duchess The problem is n't the history that the filmmakers leave in , but how much they leave out . Now that he seems past his fey middle period , Ralph Fiennes is doing some amazingly good work onscreen . ( U ) nless you are a spinster sans a recognizable love life , or someone with little previous knowledge of the genre , everything here will seem rote , baroque , and exceedingly dull . There 's something really special about Kiera Knightly in these period pieces . Period drama delves into some heavy themes . The filmmakers hope we see parallels with Georgiana and the life of Princess Diana , who somehow found a way to channel her pain into good . And they are there , to be sure . You 'd think a film where the titular character gets drunk at a party and sets her wig on fire would be more fun . 'The Duchess ' is worth seeing if only for the magnificent costumes and sets . The picture is a winner , thanks in no small part to Knightley and her accomplished ability to communicate utter despair with only a faint ripple of her porcelain features . For period drama fans there is enough high-powered bed-hopping and elegant corridor-stomping to keep them entertained . 	While The Duchess treads the now-familiar terrain of the corset-ripper , the costumes look great and Keira Knightley 's performance is stellar in this subtly feminist , period drama .
cop out If this is the film that gets Kevin Smith the money to make his Fletch film , then we can chalk it up as a necessary evil . But please someone give him the money so we never have to sit through another Cop Out ever again . Parental Content Review Any actual action 's an afterthought in this garrulous goof on the classic buddy-cop flick . Meandering and listless , Cop Out serves as ample proof that actors ca n't merely show up on the day of filming and wing it . This is a banter-driven comedy in which most of the banter just falls flat . Cop Out is clichd but just about gets away with it despite some lacklustre gags along the way . I 'm convinced that Mr. Smith has the ability to create humorous sketches and slap them together ... But he does n't seem to yet grasp how to structure , pace and edit a continuous , rational narrative . Cop out ? More like a strike out . This pitiful excuse for entertainment is utterly bereft of wit , intelligence or craft on any level . The only thing left to screw up would have been to leave the lens cap on the camera . Wait , that would have been an improvement . Cop Out is not a flop by any stretch of the late Winter/early Spring , post-Awards season sense of movie marketing . It 's just a genial , generic romp . The quintessential buddy-cop film ... and I do n't mean that in a good way . 	Cop Out is a cliched buddy action/comedy that suffers from stale gags and slack pacing .
the unforeseen A thought-provoking documentary that 's both informative and strangely poignant -- as well as beautifully shot and edited . No one who sees this intriguing documentary will want to argue with reporter Greider when he forcefully insists , `` We need a more mature regard for the future . '' We do indeed . By turns rapturously beautiful and unspeakably sad while considering the consequences of unchecked urban sprawl . Although Dunn focuses on the particular situation as it has unfolded in Austin , the film is universal , working as a microcosmic model of similar struggles taking place all over the country . Though fittingly directed by Laura Dunn , one ca n't help but feel the presence of producer Terrence Malick . Calling The Unforeseen a documentary somehow feels crass . It 's a work of art . Add The Unforeseen to the catalog of artfully produced nonfiction films that show how humans are screwing up the planet . [ Cinematographer ] Daniel has never shot a film for Malick , though you 'd hardly guess so , given The Unforeseen 's poetic and dreamy shots of nature that , like the images that open the Malick 's `` The Thin Red Line , '' hint at an Earthly paradise . This one purports to be different by including interviews with the evil , rich developers , but the film is very subtly slanted away from them . The kind of transformative viewing experience that has made the current period a golden age for nonfiction film . 	A calm documentary that does n't resort to shrill polemics , The Unforeseen also benefits from great interview subjects and jaw-dropping cinematography .
waist deep The rare summer film that actually delivers what it promises -- 90-odd minutes of lurid trash with hardly a single socially redeeming moment to be had . It even takes the time to illustrate some of my all-time favorite action movie cliches . Curtis Hall keeps slipping in surprising social and emotional flavorings rarely found in [ this ] genre . From its non-committal title downwards -- we 're a bit worse than ankle deep , but not quite neck deep -- the film includes a final shot that is almost surreal in its implausibility . Waist Deep ? More like Deep Waste . A waste of time ! Everyone connected with this gangsta opus was probably trying to make a crowd-pleaser . However , you wind up wondering what kind of crowds they were trying to please . Marred by absurd plot digressions and choppy , sloppy and incoherent shaky-camera action sequences . How do you recycle old clichs without anyone noticing ? Change the location of course , and with any luck it would look like something fresh and new . Unfortunately , the ploy did n't work . A witless urban drama that 's too serious for its own good and that never met a clich it did n't like . The worst is saved for last : just when you think the movie has shown the courage of its 'gritty ' convictions , it hits you with schmaltz that would shame a Hallmark card . [ Hall ] undermines the early style and intelligence of his all-black action movie , taking audiences for the wrong kind of ride in the end . 	A well-meaning B-movie that suffers from a cliche-ridden script and poorly drawn characters that fail to inspire much sympathy .
bad education A rare disappointment from Almodvar : perilously over-the-top gay chic coupled with an overly-familiar condemnation of the Holy Catholic Church 's blind eye towards pedophilia . I found the film devious and confused in its Pirandellian contrivances and shifts of identity . Almodvar is at his most breathtakingly complex and mature , and at his most pessimistic . Almodovar is provocative and playful , and adept at turning what seems like a minor , self-absorbed film into a profound meditation on subjects as diverse as the fragility of memory and the complexity of human sexuality . Reality , fantasy and cinema interweave with such grace and power that it 's often difficult to separate one from the other , which is , of course , the point . Almodvar gave me no education whatsoever , good or bad . His film just took up some of my time . Though short in characterization and emotional involvement , this complex tale is gripping and beautiful . ** Too delighted with its own cleverness . A rapturous masterwork . ... as tangled a piece of identity exploration as any Charlie Kaufman picture , and often as fascinating . 	A layered , wonderfully-acted , and passionate drama .
seven pounds The creepiest version yet of the Magical Negro routine El ritmo de la cinta es algo lento en un inicio pero despus mejora , aunque hay que decirlo , se siente la mano manipuladora del director que parece haber estado ms concentrado en pensar si el pblico se sentira conmovido que en hacer un filme memorable . I 've rarely seen a film so sure of its own seriousness and profundity . Proof that no black actor , regardless of acclaim or popularity , can ever truly transcend the Mythical Black Man motif . Milquetoast dweebishness robs Will Smith of his natural forcefulness , and `` Seven Pounds '' has easily the worst ending of the last decade . Ms all de lo caprichoso de la historia , e incluso de lo fragmentario del relato -a lo 21 Gramos- es innegable la capacidad que exhibe Muccino para atrapar la atencin del espectador . I 've never seen such a bad film so well made . An overwrought , improbable drama that 's as frustrating as it is morbid . Seven Pounds is an unexpected holiday powerhouse . Will Smith shakes off his familiar , comfortable persona , and cuts to the unsettled heart of humanity . Not a bad tearjerker for the holiday season and as Smith 's in it , it 'll probably make a mint . ... packs one hell of an emotional punch as it approaches its affecting and flat-out devastating conclusion . 	Grim and morose , Seven Pounds is also undone by an illogical plot .
barneys-version A master acting class , courtesy of Paul Giamatti and Dustin Hoffman . `` Barney 's Version , '' a film adaptation of Richler 's 1997 valedictory novel of the same name , is an oddity in today 's movie marketplace , a throwback to films cele-brating the lives of grown men , warts and all ... Sometimes , when a movie emerges from a book , a crucial ingredient gets left out along the way . In the case of `` Barney 's Version , '' it 's the wit . [ Giamatti ] makes this mess of a human being seem oddly gallant instead of grotesque . Giamatti is an ideal casting choice , but even this talented actor ca n't sell a lovable-jerk story that forgot to put in the lovable . In Barney 's Version , Paul Giamatti does what he does best : He plays a guy who is deeply flawed , occasionally heroic , perfectly normal and utterly fascinating . Barney 's candor , free spirit and giant heart - which may actually be bigger than his liver - are eventually intoxicating . Nobody plays irascible , self-sabotaging schlubs better than Paul Giamatti . Just like a really good novel , it gets you so well acquainted with its characters that they start to feel like your friends , and you do n't want it to finish because that will mean never seeing them again . Entertaining from start to finish -- - It truly does n't wear out its welcome despite a running time in excess of two hours . 	With a magnificent performance by Paul Giamatti , Barney 's Version offers much comedy and insight to the complexities of modern romance .
muppet christmas carol Leave it to our favorite fuzzy freaks to breathe new life into Dickens ' oft-told tale . It 's enough to make one wonder if Jim Henson would have wanted things to take this course . It 's hard not to smile at this one and be moved by it at the same time . ( Anniversary Edition ) A delight ! It all turns out to be quite touching as Muppet movies go . The late Jim Henson would have been proud of the job that his son did directing this production . It 's a solid Muppets feature . Call it `` The Muppets Take Dickensian London . '' ... an above-average Muppet movie ... There 's no great show of wit or tunefulness here , and the ingenious cross-generational touches are fairly rare . But there is a lively kiddie version of the Dickens tale , one that very young viewers ought to understand . This is the dullest and least successful adaptation of the Christmas chestnut I 've ever seen . There are plenty of laughs and a host of memorable songs crooned by everyone from Miss Piggy to Statler and Waldorf . 	It may not be the finest version of Charles Dickens ' tale to grace the screen , but The Muppet Christmas Carol is funny and heartwarming , and serves as a good introduction to the story for young viewers .
american hustle You may not trust the facts in American Hustle but you can rely on it as one of this year 's most aggressively entertaining films . Loose , wandering , and often monotonous . It 's a kaleidoscopic carnival , structured from the viewpoint of each of its main protagonists . The film itself is devised a species of scam , and for a while it 's fun to be in on the con . Russell is , in effect , playing us . Filled with rich characters and sharp dialogue , the movie turns on questions of friendship and fidelity , both personal and political , with a knockout performance by Jennifer Lawrence as the con man 's jealous , ball-busting wife . It 's a film of jaw-dropping virtuosity and pleasure , one that leaves you revved , enthralled , tickled , moved , and amazed . A complicated FBI sting operation is combined with not one , but two love triangles in this sharp , witty comedy drama topped by an audacious ending . The writing crackles with authentic-sounding dialog and the acting is superb . Like that other time-traveler to the 1970s , Paul Thomas Anderson , Russell is a big , expressive moviemaker who seems willing to try anything . Unlike Anderson , he 's even willing to swerve a little out of control , roller-disco style . ... American Hustle is like a passionate , booze-soaked conversation at a party : fun while it last , but foggy the next morning . In a dazzling movie about the art of the con , Jennifer Lawrence -- playing a feisty and frustrated New York housewife -- manages to steal all her scenes . Another memorable masterpiece cleverly crafted by the oh so talented David O ! 	Riotously funny and impeccably cast , American Hustle compensates for its flaws with unbridled energy and some of David O. Russell 's most irrepressibly vibrant direction .
best in show The film 's bite is as toothsome as its bark . In terms of dramatic tension , Best in Show is more compelling than a lot of formulaic sports movies . The movie is light as a lap dog , and often just as lovable . The first 45 minutes are amusing enough , but the movie ascends to another level with the second-half introduction of Fred Willard as commentator Buck Laughlin . Willard 's delivery is so earnest and so pitch-perfect that he had me howling with laughter for the entire last half of the movie . Barking funny . One of Best in Show 's great triumphs is its remarkable generosity of spirit . Guest is good at revealing his characters bit by bit . Best in Show has easily gained a spot on my top ten list this year . Best in Show still deserves a blue ribbon . It 's the best of its breed in this dog year for celluloid satire . 	A fine example of writer-director-star Christopher Guest 's gift for improv comedy , Best in Show boasts an appealingly quirky premise and a brilliantly talented cast .
one missed call The first major release of the year is a complete dud . Shocker ! One big miss of a horror movie . Supernatural horror does n't have to make sense , but when it tries it should n't fail -- as it does in One Missed Call , spectacularly and in thuddingly dull fashion . Decent if derivative . The temptation exists to call the movie one missed opportunity , but honestly , I do n't think anyone involved in this mess ever seriously tried to make something good . ... its 0 % Rotten Tomatoes rating is harsh enough to almost make me want to defend it . Almost . ... not the worst horror movie I 've ever seen , but it is among the more tedious . Puerile and low-rent , piggybacking on the fad of updating foreign horror films by dumbing them down for us American simpletons . Borrowing from this bottomless well , perhaps it 's best to say that you should hang up , turn off your phone or even cancel your service should this film attempt to reach out and touch you . For a would-be frightfest built around a supernatural premise , One Missed Call is so glum and businesslike that it 's not nearly as much pulpy fun as it should be . 	One of the weakest entries in the J-horror remake sweepstakes , One Missed Call is undone by bland performances and shopworn shocks .
hugo You can practically feel time stop in sync with the audience 's halted breath . It 's nothing short of wizardry . A dreamy triumph for Scorsese If ever the movie gods were to smile on an adaptation , it would be Scorsese 's take on Selznick 's bestselling book , a valentine to the cinematic artists whose work the filmmaker has toiled so tirelessly to champion and preserve . A personal statement disguised as a sellout . Hugo is a work steeped in cinema lore , drunk on the fumes of a bygone era yet canny enough to channel its nostalgia through modern innovations . Hugo 's best moments are those that are n't actually Hugo . One of the ten best films of 2011 . Like a labyrinth larded with shards of celluloid sensations past and filtered through the latest in Tinseltown commercial gimmickry , Hugo is an amazing masterwork . If Martin Scorsese is going to do a family-friendly film in 3D , it should be no surprise that it turns out to be a visually stunning ( if ponderous and over-long ) tribute to nothing short of the invention of cinema . It 's as if David Copperfield wandered into a History of Film lecture . Maybe it is n't a great idea to wait till you 're nearly 70 to make your first kid movie . 	Hugo is an extravagant , elegant fantasy with an innocence lacking in many modern kids ' movies , and one that emanates an unabashed love for the magic of cinema .
night of the hunter Laughton and cinematographer Stanley Cortez definitely create some very memorable imagery . This thriller is one of the great masterpieces of American cinema , a movie so strangely repellent , so poetic and so utterly hypnotic that it sadly never found an audience . The Night of the Hunter ( 1955 ) is a truly compelling and terrifying classic masterpiece thriller , and the only film ever directed by actor Charles Laughton Charles Laughton 's only directorial effort is a work of inspired brilliance . An astounding thriller with a chilling performance by Robert Mitchum . One of the great movie horror tales , with one of the greatest of all movie villains . At once poetically beautiful and terrifying . One of the most subversive pictures of the '50s Easily ranks among the greatest American films . All this has been crisply compacted into clear screen drama by the late James Agee and it is put forth under the direction of Mr. Laughton in stark , rigid visual terms . 	Featuring Robert Mitchum 's formidable performance as child-hunting preacher , The Night of the Hunter is a disturbing look at good and evil .
chronicles of narnia the voyage of the dawn treader Engaging third Narnia adventure is fun for tweens and up . Adventure and fun for the entire family with an easy to follow story . An ocean pouring out of a painting into a bedroom is just plain cool . Dufflepuds that look like Oompa Loompas with one foot are just plain cool . Despite some rejiggering of the book 's plot , it 's a film that should please Narnia fans and , if it does well , may lead to the return of Eustace in the next installment , The Silver Chair . Here 's hoping . A scaled-back , rather dull addition to the NARNIA franchise . Good for VERY young children , but no one else . A good old-fashioned adventure story , this family-friendly film benefits from several outstanding supporting characters . The film feels impersonal and obligatory . Not even a last-reel appearance by the lion Aslan ( possibly the greatest computer-generated animal character of all time ) can make this one a keeper . What kid has n't dreamed of being a queen or king in another world ? Never thought we 'd say it , but Voyage Of The Dawn Treader injects just enough oomph back into the limping kiddie-adventure franchise to make us almost wish for Narnia No . 4 . Almost . What a lovely finale and final ( I think ) installment of the fantasy/Christian allegory created by C. S. Lewis . 	Its leisurely , businesslike pace wo n't win the franchise many new fans , but Voyage of the Dawn Treader restores some of the Narnia franchise 's lost luster with strong performances and impressive special effects .
dead-of-night-2009 A cluttered , uninspired hash of familiar genre ideas . ... a disappointingly lifeless adaptation ... Director Munroe is clearly a fan and attempted his best on an admittedly limited budget , but some things just do n't translate that well . `` Life is wasted on the mortals , '' says an elder vampire . Even more so , I 'm afraid , on this movie . a lazily-assembled greatest-hits collection of horror iconography stitched together with little depth , less purpose , and almost no entertainment value . Entirely derivative and utterly wretched . Everybody else will have a better time revisiting Monster Squad or falling asleep . In the future , filmmakers will once again produce fun , entertaining and original films about vampires , werewolves and zombies . But until then , Dylan Dog : Dead of Night argues for a moratorium on movies about these three terrible creatures . Put a stake in this film noir monster movie , it 's done . For having such an inspired start , the movie feels oddly uninspired . 	An uninspired , feebly-acted horror/comedy that produces little scares and laughs .
shop around the corner Nostalgic and charming romance with special moments in the extra-narrative action . Although picture carries the indelible stamp of Ernst Lubitsch at his best in generating humor and human interest from what might appear to be unimportant situations , it carries further to impress via the outstanding characterizations by Margaret Sullavan This smart and stylish Lubitsch comedy was recently remade as You 've Got Mail . ... a pretty kettle of bubbling brew it makes under Mr. Lubitsch 's deft and tender management and with a genial company to play it gently , well this side of farce and well that side of utter seriousness . Lubitsch demonstrates that romantic comedies , like popcorn , can be enjoyed salty as well as sweet . This charming and well-scripted comedy exploits the ingenious set-up with delightful results . Contains delightful performances by Margaret Sullavan ( full of grace and warmth ) and the young James Stewart ( a portrait of perfection ) . The Shop Around the Corner is a blueprint for great romantic comedy , perfectly balancing its sentiment with cleverness and humour , and giving us a set of delightful characters in a plot that is as unpredictable as it is original . Entertaining to a fault , the film does n't ignite the imagination in the way many other films of the period did . My favorite Christmas film , this deliciously delicate , multi-nuanced romantic comedy is one of Lubitsch 's very best films , flawlessly acted by Jimmy Stewart at his peak , the sublime Margaret Sullavan , and the rest of the large ensemble . 	Deftly directed by Ernst Lubitsch from a smart , funny script by Samson Raphaelson , The Shop Around the Corner is a romantic comedy in the finest sense of the term .
fighting temptations Cuba Gooding Jr. and Beyonce Knowles bring us a rousing film about a gospel choir ... too bad it goes straight to hell . A woefully thin and pointless musical comedy . The story is slapdash and most of the jokes are lame , but music by the Reverend Shirley Caesar and the Blind Boys of Alabama lends fleeting touches of a grace that 's , um , amazing . Is The Fighting Temptations a washed up comedy or a monotonous musical ? A hoot and a holler . Some first-rate music in a third-rate movie . When Gooding and Knowles appear together , they drain off energy like batteries hooked in reverse . Great music , mediocre plot and acting . `The Fighting Temptations ' deserves better : a better title , a better script , a better effort from everyone behind the camera . Two hours on the dot , feels more like two years . 	The music is the only saving grace in this predictable and eager-to-please comedy .
daddy day camp By now you 've seen most of the visual gags . A bus drives into a building . An outhouse explodes . While the actors in Daddy Day Camp may be different , the tired and predictable storyline full of jokes involving urinating , flatulence , burping , vomiting and crotch shots remains the same . Muddah , Faddah , kindly disregard this fil-m . Owes more to the third or fourth sequel to Meatballs and other character-building summer-camp comedies than it does to Daddy Day Care , with neither director Fred Savage or the writers inclined to come up with a single original idea . Poison ivy would be less painful . Cuba 'Show me the money ! ' Gooding , Jr. stars in this utterly predictable , unfunny , infantile test of patience and waste of ninety minutes of my life I can never get back . Show me the exit ! It 's a bit sad to see this talented , Oscar-winning actor reduced to taking Murphy 's cast-off parts , but Gooding does fine with what the movie gives him . The screenplay is attributed to three writers . That means if the film 's funny parts were divided evenly among them , they each wrote zero . Memo to Cuba : if you 're offered the lead in a sequel to Murphy 's Pluto Nash , say no . Follow US audiences ' lead - pitch your cinematic tent elsewhere . 	A mirthless , fairly desperate family film , Daddy Day Camp relies too heavily on bodily functions for comedic effect , resulting in plenty of cheap gags but no laughs .
gentlemen prefer blondes Marilyn Monroe and Jane Russell melt the screen as the two little girls from Little Rock seeking Mr Right ( or at least Mr Right ( TM ) s bank account ) . It ( TM ) s enjoyable , escapist fluff , with a killer finale . You wo n't find a more elegant take on '50s va-va-voom vulgarity or a more joyous paean to the cheesecake self-empowerment of two little girls from Little Rock . Mediocre as a musical , but a good showcase for Monroe In Paris the enjoyment diminishes , though Monroe 's allure remains undimmed . Marilyn + diamonds + Russell = a musical gem of its time . A strong play to the sophisticated dialog and situations is given by Howard Hawks ' direction and he maintains the racy air that brings the musical off excellently at a pace that helps cloak the fact that it 's rather lightweight , but sexy , stuff . For all the three-dimensional attractions of its two leading ladies , this is a rather flat cinemusical . A lavish , colorful and hilarious Technicolor musical . Smashing . Monroe shines in the superbly photographed and choreographed production numbers , most notably Diamonds Are a Girl 's Best Friend . 	Anchored by Marilyn Monroe and Jane Russell 's sparkling magnetism , Gentlemen Prefer Blondes is a delightfully entertaining 1950s musical .
indiana jones and the last crusade Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade is by far the best , most inspired and ingeniously produced of Steven Spielberg 's affectionate odes to the heyday of the movie cliffhanger . Not surprisingly , Ford has most of the action here . But Connery -- in what is often a test of a true actor -- shows how much you can do with an essentially passive part . Sean Connery as Indy 's father is a perfect foil . The chemistry between the two men is magical ; they make a great comedy team . For almost any reason that you liked the first Indy film , you will also like the third . A blueprint for how a blockbuster sequel should be done . Connery brings out a vastly appealing dorky-kid side of Ford we have n't seen before in the Indy films , and Ford parries with Connery angrily yet lovingly . This is not so much a bad film as a machine-like one lacking the same energy as the original , which it most resembles . The eventual arrival of towering screen presence Sean Connery as Dr. Henry Jones , Sr. alongside Harrison Ford as Dr. Henry Jones , Jr. allows for what may be adventure cinema 's most potent pairing . [ DVD ] This movie returns the Indy series to its roots of thundering thrills , spiritual inspiration and perfectly timed humor . Captures some of the sense of fun that infused the first movie while using the addition of Sean Connery to up the comedic ante and provide a father/son dynamic . 	Lighter and more comedic than its predecessor , Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade returns the series to the brisk serial adventure of Raiders , while adding a dynamite double act between Harrison Ford and Sean Connery .
march of the penguins March of the Penguins is a staggeringly beautiful film about the breeding cycle of the toughest birds on Earth , the emperor penguins of Antarctica . One of the most entertaining films all summer . A film filled with scenes of humor , suspense and stunning beauty . The march of Antarctica 's emperor penguins is among nature 's incredible journeys . It 's invariably engaging , entertaining and occasionally moving -- something quite rare for a nature documentary . A real charmer even if it 's no Winged Migration . Did I love it ? No . Did I like it ? Sure . milie Simon 's music is as cute as the little baby penguins . Makes a pretty good date film , really , it 's quite romantic . It 's not a stretch to say these penguins experience recognizable emotions such as grief , jealousy , pride and plain old romance . Who knew ? 	Only the most hardened soul wo n't be moved by this heartwarming doc .
james and the giant peach As a tribute to the cranky genius of Dahl , it 's both fond and , in the best sense , fruitful . Mrs. Ladybug sums it all up with one marvelous line , though : 'It 's better than aphids . ' Who am I to argue ? The animated segments are wonderful , but they jar badly with the ill-conceived live-action pieces which open and close the film . I hope we do n't have to wait another quarter-century for the next great Dahl adaptation , but for a film as good as this one , I 'll wait . visually astonishing A stunner with a breathtaking array of eye-teasers . This very unconventional tale is well-told with an imaginative combination of live-action and stop-motion animation , all colored with Selick 's uniquely dramatic , preternatural aesthetics . The fantasy is almost too inventive for its own good . An ambitious project combining classic fiction , imaginative computer imagery and animated live-action footage . This is a clever , enthralling little tale that , if the kids in the audience were a guage , should keep all but the youngest kids entertained through its 75 minute run time . 	The arresting and dynamic visuals , offbeat details and light-as-air storytelling make James and the Giant Peach solid family entertainment .
conversation This is a severe and gripping masterpiece . The Conversation ( 1974 ) is the slowly-gripping , bleak study of electronic surveillance and threat of new technologies examined through Outdated techno-thriller . Hackman is great , but it does n't hold up . A fantastic reminder of why 70s Hollywood is so often the benchmark for modern moviedom to aspire to . Hackman is fabulous in a performance that might be the best of his career . One of Coppola 's very best . A masterpiece of mounting paranoia . A unique film , enhanced further by a great sound track by Walter Murch . A wonderfully intelligent experience . An absorbing character study of a paranoid loner . Hackman is superb . 	This tense , paranoid thriller presents Francis Ford Coppola at his finest -- and makes some remarkably advanced arguments about technology 's role in society that still resonate today .
13 going on 30 This is a strange sort of comedy where the big jokes do n't work but the little ones do . Like the song [ 'Thriller ' ] , the movie strikes an overly familiar chord . But it 's an infectious one . a harmless bit of fluff that will do much to consolidate Ms Garner 's big screen status even while it 's distinctly not blazing any new cinematic trails There are the makings of a decent movie here ... Unfortunately , initial promise eventually gives way to the clich ending , like we were all pretty sure it would . It may not be an affront to most parents ' standards in terms of content , but its intellectual offensiveness is obvious . As Jenna , Garner embodies a joy that 's all too rare on recent movie screens , in adults or kids . Garner 's heretofore unexploited comedic prowess is what catapults 13 Going on 30 from passably entertaining to highly watchable . The lanky action star of the cult television series Alias is assigned a tired playbook in this film , but she finds room to manoeuvre in a performance that exceeds expectations . When we first spy suburban washout Jenna Rink at the age of 13 , the year is supposedly 1987 -- yet she 's madly in love with Rick Springfield and has memorized the choreography to 'Thriller . ' Although director Gary Winick can put a smile on such stuff , and dispose of actors without trashing them , the script is a vapor mist of rinky-dinks . 	The plot 's nothing new , but Garner shows a lovable flair for romantic comedies .
pete seeger the power of song Joan Baez calls Pete a `` saint , '' and Jim Brown 's documentary makes a strong case for his canonization . If you 've never heard of Pete Seeger or if you 've known him all your life , see this film . Walking out , you might just be ready to put the world together . Director Brown has made a career of chronicling the history of American folk music , and Pete Seeger : The Power of Song is a worthy companion piece to his 1982 debut , The Weavers : Was n't That a Time ? As certain to get auds singing as the man himself , Pete Seeger : The Power of Song is a terrific , multilayered portrait of a singer whose legacy extends beyond music and into every major social action movement since the 1940s . Forget the controversial politics ( that 's what folk music is all about ) , this is a fascinating story with great music , despite the tedious last 15 minutes . Fans like Bruce Springsteen and Bob Dylan express unvarnished awe , but it 's the well-told arc of Seeger 's life that makes the strongest impression , as director Jim Brown takes us from the highs to the lows and back up again . Pete Seeger : The Power of Song could have been called Pete Seeger : The First Punk . As the film traces the singer 's long life , it also , inevitably , tracks the evolution of American countercultures through much of the 20th century . You sense that Seeger may feel his greatest legacy is not what he accomplished , but what his presence gave others the courage to accomplish . Even if it was just singing along with a roomful of strangers . As the loving documentary , Pete Seeger : The Power of Song , makes clear , Pete Seeger is still busy , still angry , still hopeful , still singing . An amazing man and an amazing film . 	Pete Seeger : The Power of Song is both a tribute to a legendary singer and an informative account of the birth of American counterculture .
1072011-rock [ A ] 2 1/4-hour exercise in overkill . Above Mission Impossible and Twister put together . But being better than two bloated , style-over-substance movies does not equal good . The movie 's extreme violence , exhausting action and macho posturing make it an unlikely ticket choice for women and unsuitable for children . There is n't a shot , scene or sequence in The Rock that does n't move furiously , typically with colored lights flashing into our faces or onto those of the actors . A popcorn-movie deluxe . It 's as tough and hard as it sounds . It 's also good fun . A summer action film that entertains for an afternoon and then fades away . Fake countdown and knowing reactionary tone , but the best SF car chase to date . Slick , brutal and almost human , this is the team-spirit action movie Mission : Impossible should have been . From a helicopter 's point-of-view , The Rock is just typical big American dumb fun . It 's only when you look underneath at the film 's underlying assumptions that you want to recoil . 	For visceral thrills , it ca n't be beat . Just do n't expect The Rock to engage your brain .
nick and norahs infinite playlist An often delightful love story . Think of it as Superbad without the booze or Juno without the snarky dialogue . Director Peter Sollett painted a different side of New York in his debut feature Raising Victor Vargas , but here successfully mixes genres and earns genuine laughs . As thin as an iPod Nano , as full of adolescent self-display as a Facebook page , Nick & Norah 's Infinite Playlist strives to capture what it 's like to be young right now . Handheld camerawork , long close-ups and two leads who act with fearless transparency lend a welcome intimacy to this sweet adventure . The movie around them may not have enough shape , contrast and texture . But at least these characters are always moving forward , even if the only sure thing they 've got to look forward to is dawn . Invested in ephemera , not people -- never more so then when the couple gets busy in a recording studio and the camera chooses to pivot and pan sensuously across the synthesizer . I would love the film more if the film did n't love itself so much . Like a movie that '80s-era John Hughes never made , Nick and Norah 's Infinite Playlist is candid , thoughtful , touching and hugely entertaining . A surprisingly timeless story given its hip trappings . It will enthrall teen viewers who imagine such an adventurous , music-fueled life for themselves . 	Nick and Norah 's Infinite Playlist combines a pair of charming leads , the classic New York backdrop , and a sweet soundtrack .
every little step The tights and the hairstyles may have changed a lot in 30 years , but the desperation and the elation remain the same . Reality TV has squandered the great impulse toward cultural-political exploration by turning democracy and the documentary into bread and circuses . This tragedy defeats Every Little Step , the first doc to chronicle A Chorus Line 's creation A film that 's a bit Chorus Line and a bit American Idol , with hopefuls finding themselves auditioning for the very people who created the landmark show in which they wish to appear . This is a film about young dancers desperate for a job auditioning for a show about ... young dancers desperate for a job . It 's wonderful . Dedicated theater rats might enjoy it , but it 's too one-dimensional to qualify as a singular sensation . Every Little Step is a feat of editing and sound design . It 's a can't-miss effort that knows how to please . Every Little Step shows only this : It hurts to flunk an audition , and it 's nice to get hired . Everything it has to say about Broadway was said better in Bob Fosse 's movie All That Jazz -- in its opening five minutes . Broadway fans -- as well as aficionados of A Chorus Line -- should get a kick out of Every Little Step . A bit like watching sausages getting made , but it 's fascinating ... made from the trenches for people who have no idea what casting looks like . 	Fascinating and insightful , Every Little Step is a thoroughly engrossing behind the scenes look at Broadway performers .
the-way-back [ E ] xcruciatingly punishes impressive international ensemble . [ U ] npredictable who will make it through each challenge [ that ] brings human perspective to a large continent . Humanity is dwarfed by landscape , but the effect is more pictorial than revealing . Indeed , when three of the men finally set foot on Indian soil , there is an underwhelming sense of achievement by the audience . The Way Back is an epic adventure with enough humour to keep it from feeling dour but enough realism to make it really feel like everything is at stake . As dreary as the film is , it draws you in with its captivating , yet sober , cinematography and the solid performances of the cast . The Way Back is n't much of a Christmas film , but it makes you glad to be indoors . The characters are so underdeveloped that there exists no real relationship between them on screen or in fact between characters and the audience . It may not seem like much of a compliment to say a movie makes you feel like you 've walked 4,000 miles , but `` The Way Back '' puts you in its characters ' tattered shoes and makes you care whether they make it home or not . Like its characters , this drama plods along but its compelling plot makes it worth seeing . This does n't sound like a lot of fun to watch , but Weir - in his first movie since 2003 's `` Master and Commander '' - makes it mesmerizing and occasionally lyrical . 	It is n't as emotionally involving as it should be , but this Peter Weir epic offers sweeping ambition and strong performances to go with its grand visual spectacle .
idiocracy Seriously , no one gets rednecks , metalheads and morons quite like Judge , who manages here to revel in stupidity while effectively critiquing it . Mike Judge 's Idiocracy is absolutely a satire for its time . What Judge is less sure of here than in his previous , perfectly pitched live-action comedy Office Space , is how to build a complete movie around his key ideas . Ow ! My brain ! It 's a low-boil affair from the Office Space auteur that wears out its dumb-and-dumbest playbook early on . Trust me , it 's a blast ! Many people -- at least , a few people -- have noted the dumbing-down of America , but no one until Judge has blamed it on genetics This demented look at destructive mass consumption barely approaches feature length . Still , Mike Judge dots each appealingly cheap scene with spastic sight gags and offers fiendishly hilarious , frighteningly plausible examples of cultural decay . A cautionary , sci-fi comedy which envisions a miserable dystopia half a millenia in the future where humanity has degenerated instead of advanced . There 's about 15 minutes ' worth of laughs here ; the problem is that the film is 84 minutes long . Judge has a gift for delivering brutal satire in the trappings of low comedy and for making heroes out of ordinary people whose humanity makes them suspect in a world where every inch of space , including mental , is mediated . 	Idiocracy delivers the hilarity and biting satire that could only come from Mike Judge .
another year 2010 A deft and down-to-earth anatomy of love and loneliness by Mike Leigh , one of England 's legendary directors . A delightful pack of flawed characters who are a pleasure to watch and listen to . Perhaps no one but Leigh could make such a character so sympathetic ; perhaps no one but Leigh would then weave an entire movie around someone so tiresome . As close as cinema comes to modern British Chekhov . The acting is ... uniformly terrific , and Manville as Mary is particularly outstanding . It 's virtuoso work in every sense . Mike Leigh satisfyingly mines richness in character in this intimate family piece . Actors will tell you that Leigh 's method gives their characters a hinterland . Why is it , then , that they so often look to me like exaggerated caricatures ? ... sports some fine acting , most notably from Broadbent and Sheen , [ but ] the obvious metaphors and extremes of character occasionally take `` Another Year '' out of the realm of naturalism and into caricature . Another Year is what comedian Eddie Izzard calls `` a-room-with-a-view-and-a-staircase-and-a-pond type of movie . '' And it 's wonderful . A masterful exploration of aging , family bonds , strength and loneliness . As with all his films , Leigh has reflected both the joy and the struggle of living a real life . 	Characterized by strong performances and the director 's trademark feel for the nuances of everyday life , Another Year marks another solid entry in Mike Leigh 's career of kitchen-sink English drama .
about adam A sly romantic comedy made with wit and style . For his part Townsend does Adam with a lightness of touch that fits in with the film 's cheery view of his unscrupulousness . This sprightly romantic comedy proves that the most seductive phrase in the English language is 'I need you . ' The character can only exist among silly , somewhat desperate women . This makes the willing suspension of disbelief a tad tougher for half the viewing populace . If anybody still thinks Kate Hudson is getting too much mileage out of being Goldie Hawn 's daughter , they 'll be pleasantly surprised by the range she shows in About Adam . The ending is as predictable as it is insulting in the degree to which it disappoints . It 's smart , it knows its audience can join dots and it actually makes you think about - and not just laugh at - the messes that people get themselves in over four letters . A vigorous exploration of yearning that is as liberating as it is fulfilling . It seems like several articles from FHM all rolled up into one . At least just reading the articles would have been a lot more entertaining . Stuart Townsend does an impressive balancing act in `` About Adam , '' a sly romantic comedy set in Dublin that makes a case for the virtue of infidelity . Sort of . 	Although some of the characters ' motivation may not be that clear , the movie is still a funny and sexy charmer .
ive loved you so long An uneven new French film that plays like a companion piece to the recent British drama Boy A . Claudel 's Juliette is one of the year 's great movie characters , and she has earned the right to keep some things just for herself . Scott Thomas is an ideal actress to play this character , with her coolness , her subsumed passion , her fierce intelligence , and her ever-present , self-effacing wit . A haunting and redemptive film experience . This film teaches the rewards of patience for directors , for actors and for audiences , too . The film 's last-chapter flood of confession and emotion is cathartic for the audience as well as the characters . [ Kristin Scott Thomas ] keeps a tight rein on her melodramatic instincts throughout . Then , at precisely the right moment , the character 's delayed release becomes the audience 's gratification . This is a drama about the role of forgiveness in daily life , made compelling by an actress with a flair for the ordinary . Do n't let the Harlequin Romance title fool you . I 've Loved You So Long is n't a perfect movie , thanks to the wrinkle at the end but it is so good for so long that it begs forgiveness . 	I 've Loved You So Long is a sublimely acted family drama as well as a noteworthy directorial debut from Phillipe Claudel .
next karate kid While the message that a girl can defend herself against the boys threatening her is a good one , it 's lost in a movie where the bullies look like Mussolini 's bodyguards and where Julie waits for her boyfriend and Miyagi to come to her defense . The Next Karate Kid is harmless as children 's entertainment , but for 104 very long minutes , there is n't a recognizable human being in sight . An irrelevant foot note in the `` Karate Kid '' series that can be overlooked if only for being so vanilla . Violent sequel does n't benefit from gender change . Typically , good battles evil and , as always , good prevails . [ It ] may be the silliest episode yet in the popular Karate Kid series . A few pre-prom dance lessons are the only significant departure from the tried and tested chop-socky formula , although Michael Ironside is good value as Swank 's sinister gym teacher . Desperately trying to infuse new blood into the 1980s franchise , the fourth installment is a hodgepodge that fashions recycled ideas and characters ; the rebllious girl is played Hilary Swank , who would go to Oscar glory . ... a weak sequel that boasts few compelling attributes aside from Pat Morita 's expectedly stirring turn as Mr. Miyagi . The overt message of any Karate Kid movie : Do n't fight unless you absolutely have to . The implicit message : You 'll always have to . Let the smitings begin ! 	The Next Karate Kid is noteworthy for giving audiences the chance to see a pre-Oscars Hilary Swank , but other than a typically solid performance from Pat Morita , this unnecessary fourth installment in the franchise has very little to offer .
producers the movie musical [ T ] he most recent Producers is a clone of a clone , and what it adds in song and dance it loses in brevity and , as is so often the case , wit . Works on its own terms and is a version of The Producers well worth having . Stroman keeps things lively , and Lane , in particular , comes into his own . He mugs too much for my taste but then again , The Producers is n't exactly subtle . It would n't be The Producers if it were . The Producers might work okay on stage but it collapses the second the same material and songs get in front of a camera . A shrill and grating production ... watching it is rather like trying on a never ending series of hair shirts . As creaky as the traditional musicals it once poked fun at , The Producers has been entombed -- lox , shtick and two smoking bagels -- as a theatrical fossil , and reinforces the danger in returning to the same material one time too many . If this film were any funnier , the world would explode . The picture is so garish and creatively lazy at times , it almost becomes the very sort of vapid spectacle it parodies . I walked out with songs on my lips and a stitch in my side from laughing so hard . A movie is in serious trouble when my pervading thought is how much I 'd rather be watching the play . 	Despite the rich source material , The Producers has a stale , stagy feel more suited to the theater than the big screen .
devil came on horseback This documentary stares truth in the face in more ways than one . This documentary tells us two things . It 's very bad in the Darfur region of the Sudan and the U.S. is n't doing a damned thing to stop the genocide there . Keeps visual dazzle to a minimum , and applies subtle techniques to provide a needed background to current events . Brutal , urgent , devastating -- the documentary The Devil Came on Horseback demands to be seen as soon as possible and by as many viewers as possible . The film 's approach suits an audience broader than the usual documentary crowd , though it 's worth mentioning that those pictures can really stay with you . Steidle 's documentary evidence - shot where no journalist can set foot - makes for grim viewing . Gripping , heartfelt and eye-opening film . Both explains the rationale for the chaos in Darfur in terms we can all understand and asks us to follow Steidle 's lead by demanding our leaders to act now in order to save the helpless people of Darfur . The Devil Came On Horseback sets out to shock . The images caught by Steidle 's camera will stay with you long after his personal story - given too much time in relation to events - has faded from memory . Brian Steidle wants to show you some pictures . Please look at them . 	The Devil Came on Horseback is both a strong primer on the complexities of the situation in Darfur and a harrowing first-person doc .
polisse 2011 A ( chaotic ) tour-de-force ... It 's restless and compelling , ragged and moving . It 's like the French version of Law & Order : Special Victims Unit , except every case is one that would send Detective Elliot Stabler totally mental and inspire him to punch a wall or two . As humane as it is disturbing , Polisse rifles the files of Paris ' Child Protection Unit in search of successes , failures and all the shades of ambiguity in between . The details will gut you , and then haunt your dreams . So amorphous , volatile and multi-plotted it could be a rough cut . It 's melodramatic to the point of lunacy , but an intense ride you wo n't soon forget . Over the film 's more-than-two-hour running time we are immersed in the lives of these cops as they attempt both to see justice done and to preserve their sanity . Even though it crumbles under any close scrutiny , you feel there would be scope for a less hysterical sequel . Not for the faint-hearted , but it feels like the truth . 	Polisse is a gripping and powerful procedural drama filled with fine acting and unflinching eye for truth and brutality .
the master 2011 Phoenix gives the performance of his career . Despite sumptuous cinematography and sublime acting , Paul Thomas Anderson 's latest film ultimately feels a touch pointless . The film never lags . It is too gorgeous , too expertly acted , and above all , too well directed and written . Nearly devoid of exposition , `` The Master '' unfolds seamlessly and naturally . Even if I do n't always understand them , these people fascinated , appalled and finally moved me , and Anderson has created a richly layered , believable world for them to struggle within . The film is interested in a cult of personality . Like Anderson 's previous movie , `` The Master '' is a portrait of megalomania . It shows Anderson to be one of the most challenging film-makers in America , if not the world . The Master may go down as one of Paul Thomas Anderson 's most compelling works for two simple reasons : Joaquin Phoenix and Philip Seymour Hoffman . a perfect circle of visceral and philosophical energies which makes The Master a remarkable , ferocious experience , not just one of the best films of the year , but a singular achievement that does n't just earn its divisiveness but outright demands it . Even in its most perplexing moments , it 's always a delight to watch thanks to the astonishing performances and the gorgeous 70mm imagery . The Master may not be to all tastes but it is a lyrical , spellbinding epic that tests the little grey cells in the way that few films do these days . 	Smart and solidly engrossing , The Master extends Paul Thomas Anderson 's winning streak of challenging films for serious audiences .
1131721-punisher It actually makes the 1989 version ( starring Dolph Lundgren ) look pretty good by comparison . There 's something to be said for letting a comic book adaptation operate at the level of a comic book , dispensing cheap laughs and ice-cold sadism . Frank Castle , the character , is nothing more than a weapon , a gun that keeps going off till its chamber is empty . When he 's spent , so 's the movie -- but not the audience , which could n't care less about anyone on the screen . Take the skull t-shirt away and The Punisher could be any cookie cutter revenge flick . Hensleigh , co-writer with Michael France , makes the paint-by-numbers of organized-crime movies look fresh by tapping good actors and sleek camera work . Comic book revenge fantasy would have to struggle to hit two dimensions -- and why is Thomas Jane on board ? By the time The Punisher reaches its depressing conclusion , one is more likely to feel unclean about the whole experience than to walk away with an adrenaline rush . In a case study of how to screw up a simple , powerful revenge story , director Jonathan Hensleigh punishes audiences with an unbearably sluggish action movie that requires the word 'action ' to be placed in quotes . For such a formulaic vigilante film , The Punisher has a far better cast than it deserves . If this is going to become a franchise , somebody better send Jane to charm school , and pronto . 	A good cast fails to elevate this overly violent and by-the-numbers revenge flick .
american gangster Crowe and Washington uphold their usual high standards while bringing a fascinating story to life , and American Gangster never bores . Ridley Scott 's American Gangster offers both belated history-lesson and demented hero-worship , and seems to be intended as a kind of gift to black America . One hopes that black America will have nothing to do with it . American Gangster is n't bad or poorly-made or unsatisfactory ; it 's just good enough to make you painfully aware of all the ways it could have been better , too big and observed to watch as simple entertainment and too glossy and glib to watch as meaningful Despite reprehensibly painting the charming real Frank White as admirable when in fact he was a cold-blooded killer and drug pusher , this is a very entertaining film . This is by far the best film of the year with stand out performances from Crowe and Washington . But it 's not as epic as it wants to or should be . If it 's not Scott 's Godfather , it 's certainly as close as he 's ever going to get . Washington may have not wanted to glorify the Harlem drug dealer , but with his superb acting skills he has created one of the coolest gangsters since Tony Montana . American Gangster is 2 1/2 hours of pleasure with a guilty aftertaste . An unmistakably familiar story , but something about its execution here feels fresh anyway . Ridley Scott deftly contrasts the character of his two principals , demonstrating that the drug underworld is organized like legit corporations , obsessed with competition , fair prices , and quality products . 	American Gangster is a gritty and entertaining throwback to classic gangster films , with its lead performers firing on all cylinders .
layer cake protagonist 's narration puts the film 's complex plot into much broader economic , political and cultural context . British actor Daniel Craig ... is the latest name rumored to play James Bond - and this smart gangland thriller could be his audition tape . Confusing ... befuddling ... too long . With a different script and a different director this might have worked ... But , then , that would have been a completely different movie . It 's nice to look at , but lacks a sense of purpose . The most crackerjack entertainment I 've seen so far this year . Layer Cake always pulls itself up by its bootsraps whenever its energy threatens to flag . Bloody good fun a great deal of the time . Love the accents . Love the guns . Bang-bang . Fun stuff indeed , even if you might need the subtitles to help decipher all the Britspeak . All of the nastiness here gets a little tiresome after awhile , as do the attempts to glamorize the drug trade . May be a worthy successor to a busy genre , but it is not an inventive inheritor . 	A stylized , electric British crime thriller .
1119037-nicholas nickleby Nathan Lane as the flamboyant theatrical impresario Crummles has never been better or more restrained on film , and Alan Cumming and Timothy Spall are a pleasure , as always . Expansive and intimate , detailed yet microcosmic , Douglas McGrath 's Nicholas Nickleby is a dazzling distillation of Charles Dickens ' classic , sprawling novel . Does a respectable job of retelling as much of Dickens tale as possible in the time alloted . Respectful adaptation of rich Dickens novel . There are many pleasures to be found in Douglas McGrath 's Nicholas Nickleby . May be Dickens Lite , but taken on its own slick , genteel terms it 's a surprisingly winning confection ... a film of wit and style . the perfect resource for students who 've balked at the book 's brick-like dimensions but who have an exam on it the next day , and need a quick overview The supporting cast alone is the worth of this film - see it for them . The characters are largely one-dimensional -- implausibly sweet & naive or absurdly ruthless & cruel without reason -- and they invite second-guessing to a distracting degree . One of those studious adaptations that seem tailor-made for showing to high-school English classes . 	Thanks to a strong cast of experienced actors and director Douglas McGrath 's steady hand , Nicholas Nickleby is a worthy and respectful adaptation of the Dickens novel .
bangkok dangerous As a Cage remake goes , it 's never as terrible or inadvertently hilarious as The Wicker Man ; but its functionality , over-familiarity and misguided morality makes it more Bangkok Dubious . If Cage wants to use his clout as an actor and producer ( he 's credited with both here ) to make down-and-dirty B-movies , then more power to him . But if the results are going to be this unbearable , he 'd might as well crank out the Oscar-bait . This has the look of a cheap quickie foreign film , not unlike a Hong Kong action film . Cage is believable as the brooding lone-wolf gunman , but the `` hit man screwing himself by growing a conscience on his final kill '' ploy needs to be put down for good . As they did with their original , the Pangs steal liberally from John Woo without ever replicating his shootout-choreography inventiveness or proficiency . The film is n't overtly heavy-handed in its violence , but it does n't provoke enough surprises to keep the mind from drifting -- a poison pill for an action film . Been there , seen that . But it 's not the notes , it 's how Cage plays them . The sinking realization kicks in : These people are taking this nonsense seriously . Heavy on the spice and cheap on the meat , Bangkok Dangerous adds plenty of Thai seasoning to the Hollywood lone-assassin recipe , but the result is only mildly pungent . Danny and Oxide Pang [ rework ] the plot of their 2000 thriller to make way for Nicolas Cage and his Big Star persona 	With murky cinematography , a meandering pace , a dull storyline , and rather wooden performances , The Pang Brothers ' Hollywood remake of Bangkok Dangerous is unsuccessful .
simple plan What would you do for 4 million dollars ? How far would you go to get it ? Sam Raimi 's brilliant , chilling A Simple Plan tells the story of 4 people that went much too far . A surprisingly effective piece of work . There is a relentlessness to `` A Simple Plan '' that drives the story through to its tragic and sad ending . I do n't ask much from a movie , really : Give me three discontented guys and a big sack of money , then let it all slowly unravel , and I 'm happy . powerful , if pedestrian I think director Raimi wanted this film to be another Fargo , and instead it was more like the first Evil Dead - all Billy Bob 's charisma and nought else . A Simple Plan is a suspenseful , unnerving movie that ranks as one of the best thrillers in recent years . The plot and characters converge nicely , and by the end , you are left to wonder how much money is enough to entice you to sell your soul . A smart , scary , suspenseful and heartbreaking morality tale about ordinary people destroyed not by demons but their own desires . The theme of the ever-shifting tides of evil within people is a perfect fit for the dark sensibilities of Raimi . It 's been done before , and Raimi does n't do it much differently or put his own stamp on it . 	A riveting crime thriller full of emotional tension .
four brothers Add a script that teeters precariously between vengeance , poignancy and comedy , and Four Brothers starts to look like four movies . Loud , stupid , unrealistic , overdone , without a thought in its ugly little head and kind of enjoyable . One can only wonder if Four Brothers would have gone from good to great if Singleton balanced the exit wounds with something more than skin deep . Endearingly crummy . When it works , the movie has the loose , slightly screwy vibe of an early-'80s exploitation picture ( something from Cannon Pictures , perhaps . ) Ridiculously violent , crude , homophobic , brash and often plain absurd . A well-executed balance of Hollywood action and human tenderness . An unremarkable , mediocre remake of John Wayne 's `` The Sons of Katie Elder '' without Wayne 's charisma and with an ending that is not credible . Singleton , whose feature film career got off to a terrific start with Boyz N the Hood ( 1991 ) , delivers this proficiently made factory job with some snap . Four Brothers excels at following revenge-movie guidelines , and not much else . An above-average cast ca n't hide its B-movie pedigree . It 's like Anything Can Happen Day on The Mickey Mouse Club , but with a higher body count . 	Despite striking a believable rapport among its principal actors , Four Brothers overwhelms with ultra-violent , vigilante-glorifying action and devolves into too many fractured , insubstantial thematic directions .
24 hour party people An often exhilarating portrait of the passionate , mad individuals who took no prisoners as they forged a new musical culture . A light and playful look at the Manchester music scene which spans from the punk explosion to the dawn of acid house . Those wishing for a full-on , comprehensive look at the era will be disappointed , but Winterbottom , Coogan , and Boyce serve up a vivid and lively thumbnail sketch . 'An entertaining but ultimately insubstantial dramatization of the Manchester punk scene . ' The bad thing about 24 Hour Party People is that it 's blindly ambitious , garishly self-indulgent and reckless with the truth . The good thing is it knows all these things . And the best thing is that it might be a great movie . The Manchester creation myth is thrillingly re-enacted . It 's worthwhile alone for Mr. Coogan 's fine portrayal of Mr. Wilson as a sly , cantankerous question mark of a man who provokes more queries than he answers . The revolutionary music speaks for itself , and Steve Coogan 's smooth , self-assured delivery in the lead role serves as a great host . Fun for a spell but becomes repetitive and monotonous . It leaves you in a haze . Regardless of its value as cultural anthropology , Party People is energetic , ear-splitting fun with comic absurdity and a pulsating soundtrack . 	The colorful , chaotic 24 Hour Party People nimbly captures the spirit of the Manchester music scene .
the gift 2015 `` The Gift '' is full of various ludicrous acts , though , in full disclosure , I did scream at one predictable surprise -- - shame on me ! Haunting `` Gift '' one of the year 's best . The Gift does n't succumb to genre banalities until its final scenes . That 's more than enough reason to see it . It 's a psychological thriller and it does what thrillers are supposed to do ; create a sense of genuine dread out of those murky , unwanted thoughts that we all share about who we are and what we want . A satisfying directorial debut from writer , producer and actor Joel Edgerton . Edgerton -- who also wrote The Square and the story for The Rover -- exploits Bateman 's smarty-pants persona to chilling effect ; he 's the rare triple threat who 's more valuable behind the camera than in front of it . Descends into emotional idiocy and insufficient intrigue to end in a disgusting place that presumes that a woman is an appropriate pawn in games men play . A very solid directorial debut for Joel Edgerton . Jason Bateman is terrific . [ The conclusion ] dramatically overplays its hand and overstays its welcome almost more than Gordo himself . While it is a suspenseful thriller through and through , The Gift is simultaneously a complex character study for all three of the principal leads . 	The Gift is wickedly smart and playfully subversive , challenging the audience 's expectations while leaving them leaning on the edges of their seats .
10012256-predators A tight , surprising , well made action flick that relishes in macho-ness . A stolid , uninspired imitation of the original ... Brody has the makings of a first-class action hero . Unfortunately , he is strutting his stuff in a third-rate action movie . Though Predators is n't quite as well put together as the original film , nor do the sequences offer the same sustained threat , it 's still enough to get your adrenaline flowing . If it 's not going to be smart , it could at least have the decency to not also be boring . After two poor Alien vs . Predator showings , Predators returns to the tried , true , and successful formula off setting 'em up and knocking 'em down . Predator purists ( is that an oxymoron ? ) have nothing to fear : This is a worthy follow-up . Antal conjures up some arresting visuals , like the opening shot of Brody waking up in freefall , and some well-paced action sequences as the cast is killed off in reverse order of billing . After the opening scene , there 's not a shred of originality in this frantic sci-fi sequel . Predators is a midsummer surprise that should restore some life to a franchise that seemed to me to be well past its expiration date . 	After a string of subpar sequels , this bloody , action-packed reboot takes the Predator franchise back to its testosterone-fueled roots .
half nelson Gosling inhabits Dan with every feature of his face and particle of his body and soul . Gosling has an investment in character here that is whole-bodied , and he commands your attention in every frame he 's in . A good film with a great performance . it 's refreshing to see a film like Half Nelson that wallows in the gray areas An excellent film that deserves to put Ryan Gosling in the running for an Oscar nomination . One friend may be all it takes . Thick with a swirl of ideas , and that makes for a deceptively well-executed film . a slow moving but uncompromising film that will have you in it 's grip days later , largely due to the galvanizing performance of Ryan Gosling . Ryan Gosling 's self-destructive teacher is easily the year 's most mesmerizing character study . And he 's hardly the only reason to see this film . Shareeka Epps anchors her scenes as Drey with a self-possession way beyond her years . A welcome antidote to the usual cliches of the inspirational teacher movie , this is sharply written and superbly acted by Ryan Gosling and Shareeka Epps . 	Half Nelson features powerful performances from Ryan Gosling and Shareeka Epps . It 's a wise , unsentimental portrait of lonely people at the crossroads .
rescue dawn Rescue Dawn covers all the emotions you want a movie to ... It 's just a good , all around , well rounded movie . Lush visuals and a fascinating story ... but hardcore Herzog fans may not approve . ... a pretty good movie that could be received on the level of pure entertainment . It is no less Hollywoodized than The Great Escape or Stalag 17 . Shows that good old fashioned American never-give-up-itude spirit . Except , you know -- from a German guy . Workmanlike and watchable , Rescue Dawn is nonetheless a disappointment in its depiction of a hero with plenty of scars but little depth or substance beyond an iron will . Watching Zahn and Bale at the top of their game will get audiences over any storytelling speed bumps in Rescue Dawn . What a sweet collision is Rescue Dawn : the American psycho meets the German kook . At first glance , `` Rescue Dawn '' might seem like Herzog gone Hollywood , but it 's still very much the man 's work . Herzog has his cake and eats it too . Herzog never shies away from anything horrific or disgusting , but rather moves in closer with an unusual fearlessness . Rescue Dawn is subtle in its politics but still works powerfully well as both an incredible story of personal survival and an anti-war treatise . 	Director Werner Herzog has once again made a compelling tale of man versus nature , and Christian Bale completely immerses himself in the role of fighter pilot ( and prisoner of war ) Dieter Dengler .
zatoichi 2003 Stylishly directed and smartly acted , especially by the filmmaker-star , who gives one of his best performances as the unerring swordsman . Say hello to a pop cinema masterpiece . Hyper-violent yet emotionally powerful , The Blind Swordsman : Zatoichi is the rare exploitation film that values relationships over bloodshed . But the bloodshed is still pretty awesome . Part Three Stooges , part `` 'Seven Samurai , '' `` Zatichi '' is the film Quentin Tarantino tried to realize with the one-two sucker punch of `` Kill Bill . '' A revisionist re-imagining of the character for modern audiences that retains and celebrates its spirit . Kitano has loosened up , using stronger color schemes and relying less on the shock value of his editing . Kitano 's take on the classic 'blind swordsman ' character of Japanese cinema outdoes Tarantino 's playacting in every particular . Some culture-specific humor that does n't translate well and a protagonist who is downright silly -- - always chuckling and cackling to himself in a way that gets on the nerves . The clashes are lightning quick , heavily reliant on the talents of director of photography and longtime Takeshi Kitano associate Katsumi Yanagijima . Beneath its layers of epic detail , this Zatichi is cinematic cotton candy . 	Colorful , rich with action and wonderfully choreographed , Takeshi Kitano takes on the classic samurai character with his own brand of cinematic flair .
daredevil The movie is actually pretty good . Justice may be blind , but the only enjoyment to be had out of this is to be blind drunk . This film delivers lots of action , an intriguing back-story , two fun villains , a gorgeous love interest , a humorous side-kick and more . A colossal misfire , Daredevil is the Battlefield Earth of superhero films , which is n't surprising given its pairing of charisma-free actor Ben Affleck ( Pearl Harbor ) with saccharine writer/director Mark Steven Johnson ( Simon Birch ) . There are no awe-inspiring sequences to speak of , and lauded fight scenes - including Daredevil 's anticipated confrontation with the Kingpin - are flat , poorly edited , and over before they begin . The digital effects , including many of the fight scenes , are terrible -- TERRIBLE ! ! ! Daredevil certainly belongs in the pantheon of comic book movies to get it just right . Positively un-super . It is a superhero story to which they brought the superhero but not the story . Not as entertaining , engaging or enjoyable as it should be . 	While Ben Affleck fits the role and the story is sporadically interesting , Daredevil is ultimately a dull , brooding origin story that fails to bring anything new to the genre .
just like heaven I do n't know if I 've ever seen this kind of mismatched energy on screen - like trying to pair a hummingbird with a heavily drugged circus bear . Just Like Heaven '' perpetuates the Frisco curse that not one great movie has been made in the hilly city since Alfred Hitchcock 's Vertigo in 1958 . Considerably more mushy than madcap , Just Like Heaven is as uneven as the topography of its San Francisco locales , but the amiable peaks mostly offset the flat stretches and valleys . Closer to hell , really . Quirky and offbeat , Just Like Heaven delivers what you 'd expect it to . Ever wonder about having a relationship with someone who would just disappear every so often ? Well , that materializes here-and sometimes it does n't look too bad Bringing it all together is a strong cast , starting with Witherspoon , who moves easily from comedy to drama and back again . Just Like Heaven is just so darned cute . Ruffalo and Witherspoon bring conviction to their roles ; they 're taking the story seriously and that allows us to do the same . Romance is n't alive but on life support in Just Like Heaven , a groaningly awful romantic comedy . 	Delightfully sweet like a lollipop , Just Like Heaven is a dreamy romantic comedy that may give you a toothache when it attempts to broach difficult end of life issues by throwing a cherry on top .
ray Eminently worth seeing . The film does n't make Ray Charles ' lifetime events into necessary , cumulative movie events . Jamie Foxx 's impersonation of Ray Charles completely fails to live up to the hype . It 's incredibly difficult to play an icon without simply imitating him , but Foxx does it . It is n't the superficial career reconstruction that makes this movie worth the price of admission , it 's the `` Best of Charles '' compilation that will move you . Jamie Foxx should start clearing some space on his mantle -- his extraordinary , transcendent performance as music legend Ray Charles in the exuberant Ray is the one to beat for Best Actor come Oscar night . You may be so pleasantly swept up in the performances and the music that Ray will send you out of the theater singing and smiling . Foxx does what he 's supposed to . He steals his own show . The directing is sure-handed , the script intelligent , and the acting strong , especially the amazing performance from Foxx . The music numbers are lively , the supporting cast solid , and the direction by Taylor Hackford is fully efficient . 	An engrossing and energetic portrait of a great musician 's achievements and foibles , Ray is anchored by Jamie Foxx 's stunning performance as Ray Charles .
rules of engagement What distinguishes Rules is its use of xenophobia to bolster its legal arguments , and presumably tap audience 's deep-seated prejudices . Rules of Engagement suffers from a serious split personality disorder . It 's a deftly executed crowd-pleaser , but it 's dishonest to the core . The casting pays off . Rules of Engagement never engages us . Rules of Engagement avoids most of the typical courtroom pitfalls . If the makers had n't stuck so closely to the rules , this film would have been far more engaging . Webb , Gaghan and director William Friedkin are n't courting the sensible ; they 're out to appeal to right-wing hawks whose talons outnumber their I.Q . points . It turns unavoidably static and talky . Tommy Lee Jones can be a sleepwalker when he 's not emotionally invested in a project ; here he 's in high gear . 	The script is unconvincing and the courtroom action is unegaging .
my neighbor totoro My Neighbor Totoro is more than a fairy tale ; it is an engaging story which uses fantasy sparingly . A welcome antidote to the US cultural imperialism of countless inferior Disney sell-thru videos . . . what Miyazaki has animated is an idyll , that most melancholic and nostalgic of genres , where landscapes vanish , innocence is lost and death is as much a part of nature as life . Too much of the film ... is taken up with stiff , mechanical chitchat . A film that crosses generations and cultural barriers : watching it , it 's hard not to feel like a kid again . One of the best animated films ever made for families : it celebrates feminine sensitivity , the importance of the spirit world , respect for nature , and the pre-eminence of the spiritual practice of kindness . Has such assured naturalism and incidental detail that it seems we are watching animated actors , not just cartoon characters The beauty of My Neighbor Totoro is its simplicity . It 's a warm and friendly story that just made me feel good after watching it . A little dated and a little immature when compared to later Miyazaki works , but that 's not such a bad thing , really . Sheer enchantment . 	My Neighbor Totoro is a heartwarming , sentimental masterpiece that captures the simple grace of childhood .
sweet sixteen Sweet Sixteen is a wonderfully bittersweet effort , and one of Loach 's best works . A hard film to shake and makes us think and think again . . . . a dark , heart-wrenching masterpiece from British director Ken Loach . . . Director Ken Loach often examines the lives of Britain 's downtrodden , but in Sweet Sixteen his bleakness becomes too familiar . Compston , in his first role , is riveting because of the sense of authenticity and hopelessness he brings to the part . To use Liam 's words , it 's f-ing brilliant . ... soon that dreaded 'Plot ' comes calling and Loach tries to cram ten pounds of atmosphere into a 5-pound box marked 'Melodrama ' . [ Loach ] allows us to look into lives we would otherwise ignore . An uncompromising look at life , with all its questionable triumphs and irreversible consequences , performed by a cast that is virtually untrained and entirely genuine , with a fully engaging performance by Martin Compston . Mixes the bitter with the sweet and stays in the mind because it refuses to succumb to the cynicism that surrounds its protagonist . 	A bleak , but heartbreaking coming-of-age tale that resonates with truth .
1001567-bad news bears Amiably engrossing satire on the 'win ethic ' that offers a take-it-or-leave-it approach to its serious points about enforcing precociousness on kids , but consistently delights with its panoramic comic invention . A small winner . If all kids ' movies were like this , you would n't need to drag parents to the multiplexes . [ VIDEO ESSAY ] Rife with every non-politically-correct social tic that '70s America had to offer , `` The Bad News Bears '' ( 1976 ) is a sports comedy that serves as a cultural benchmark . Is n't it great when a piece of classical music gets forever redefined by a movie about a bunch of foul mouthed brats ? What could be a better way to spend 102 minutes of the truth ? Surprisingly , improbably , The Bad News Bears is the year 's funniest movie . Nice until they came up with a franchise ! An extremely funny adult-child comedy film . [ Ritchie ] directs scenes for comedy even in the face of his disturbing material and that makes the movie all the more effective ; sometimes we laugh , and sometimes we ca n't , and the movie 's working best when we 're silent . Matthau 's perfectly restrained , brilliantly comic performance holds it together . 	The Bad News Bears is rude , profane , and cynical , but shot through with honest , unforced humor , and held together by a deft , understated performance from Walter Matthau .
the crash reel 2013 The Crash Reel is an insightful and deeply affecting look at the hazardous world of extreme sports , through the lens of ill-fated snowboarder Kevin Pearce . The sense of praying for a professional athlete to please , please not mount a comeback is what makes The Crash Reel so terrifying and so compulsively watchable . With its high-energy music and graffiti-style graphics , The Crash Reel plays like the slick promos NBC uses to repackage every Olympian 's story into a pat narrative . Operating on several levels , this engaging documentary holds our attention with eye-opening information and pulse-quickening action , but what makes it unmissable is its emotional kick . The Crash Reel is an atypical sports movie . It 's about placing your ambition on the back burner , about winning through giving up . The film captures the horror and danger and the druggy thrill . We understand why these kids want their `` highs '' even when the cost of coming low can be fatal . Dangerous sports smacks up against towering ambition in this sensationally accomplished documentary to ask a universal question : How far do you go in order to be who you were born to be ? The hook of The Crash Reel is that it 's about the rivalry between two famous American snowboarders , but in reality , Lucy Walker 's slickly produced documentary is about one man 's ongoing battle with himself -- on and off the slopes . The Crash Reel simply swells one 's heart ; the Pearce family is a smart and loving one , and the lessons sprinkled throughout this amazing documentary are multitude . Walker never preaches , she and Kos just lay out an incredible journey with a few supportive side trips to build her case against extreme sports while still celebrating the athletes who participate in them . 	Smart , compassionate , and moving , The Crash Reel uses the familiar sport-doc formula to subvert expectations and ask challenging questions about ambition and achievement .
slow west 2015 First-time feature filmmaker John Maclean takes a strikingly original approach to the Western , creating a realistic road trip for two very different men . There 's much to admire here , but somewhere in the wispy sharpness and smoky grittiness of Maclean 's venture into genre , intentions and passions become obtuse and ephemeral in a sweeping tapestry of ideals and postures . It 's always entertaining to see a genre tweaked , at least when it 's done so with the proper mix of respect and madness at work in `` Slow West . '' Slow West ambles to its inevitable bloody conclusion , a beautifully orchestrated ballet cast with heroes , fools , unwelcomed guests , and lovers , assembled in the fields of the Lord . Welcome back to the West . It 's a work of rare purity , directness and concision - a pity that it 's lumbered with that slightly deceptive , off-putting title . Slow it 's not . Just as your attention starts to wander , `` Slow West '' pulls it up short . The director is John Maclean , making his dbut , and , if he demonstrates how hard it is to handle whimsy , he more than atones for it ... Maclean takes more interest in the journey than the destination . The stops along the way are alternately life-threatening , illuminating and abruptly , wildly funny . The western may be about as relevant to American society as the ability to lasso a rampaging steer , but the genre refuses to die . Instead it evolves , taking on new meanings with each new incarnation . `` Slow West '' must be counted one of the most unintentionally ridiculous Westerns to come down the pike in a long , long while . John Maclean 's impeccably crafted writing-directing debut at times has a distinctly Coen-esque flavor in its mix of sly intelligence , bleak humor and unsettling violence , exuding fierce confidence even when these qualities do n't always cohere . 	Slow West serves as an impressive calling card for first-time writer-director John M. Maclean -- and offers an inventive treat for fans of the Western .
tyrannosaur This is n't the kind of movie that even has hope enough to contain a message . There is no message , only the reality of these wounded personalities . If only Considine was not so intent on trying to shock us . He succeeds at that , all right - but in doing so he fails his film . The characters are trapped , suffocated , pushed through a story that gives them very little room or time to figure themselves out , and that finally turns their feelings into the wan stuff of fable . Tyrannosaur is British miserabilism at its most numbingly brutal and blunt . A well-made and brilliantly acted film . It 's actually an uplifting and thoughtful meditation on judgement , about the presumptions we make about other people 's lives . [ VIDEO ] Actor Paddy Considine turns writer/director with an overwrought drama burdened with the earmarks of dramatist trying too hard to make a mark , if not a lasting impression . A powerful film you ca n't shake and wo n't want to revisit anytime soon . Brit thesp Paddy Considine makes a strong writing-helming feature debut with `` Tyrannosaur , '' recycling the same cast , characters and setup he used for his 2008 award-winning short `` Dog Altogether . '' [ Mullan and Colman are ] the anchors of the film 's scary , tightly wound world , in which everyone 's spring is dangerously close to being sprung . 	Tyrannosaur is a brutal , frank , and ultimately rewarding story of violent men seeking far-off redemption .
leviafan The Russian Federation 's 2015 Academy Award entry in the Best Foreign Language Film category ( it lost to Poland 's Ida ) lives up to its title and then some . Though it takes place in a small town and involves only a handful of characters , the Russian drama `` Leviathan '' has a feeling of expansiveness , even grandeur . Politically charged and viscerally moving , Leviathan is a powerful film that challenges viewers to think about the injustices in the world that evade our tunnel vision . Many conversations start and end around a kitchen table . Why , then , should we be left with such an impression of grandeur , limitless suffering , and wrath ? The sense of occasion is immense ; the subject matter bleak . Russian filmmaker Andrey Zvyagintsev is in complete command with Leviathan , his mammoth film about little people fighting for their lives , or even a shred of dignity . It 's a challenging , lengthy film , with some key moments transpiring off screen , but one that rewards effort . Brimming with emotion , unflinchingly tense , and often darkly , painfully funny , this is a film possessed of both classic sweep and sharp contemporary relevance . It 's early in the year , but I suspect it 's still not a stretch to say that the geography in Andrey Zvyagintsev 's Leviathan are some of the most quietly evocative landscapes of the year . Andrey Zvyagintsev never loses sight of the humans , who 're allowed to display improvisatory behavior that deepens the majesty of the rigorously orchestrated tableaus . Zvyagintsev builds to a crescendo with the force of an ocean storm ... '' Leviathan '' is a great , literary work of existential despair , as magnificent as its titular creature . 	Leviathan lives up to its title , offering trenchant , well-crafted social satire on a suitably grand scale .
core For all its predictability and cornball heroics , this adventure is as sleek and efficient as its inner-spacecraft . Though beset with small problems of tonality , The Core smartly eschews action hero bravado for functionality and economy . The science is enough of a mixture of real and extrapolated elements that it feels both plausible and fantastical . Well acted and fun , makes a great springboard for conversation in any science class and a good old-fashioned night out at the movies . Apesar de abusar na utilizao de clichs , o roteiro de O Ncleo possui a grande vantagem de saber rir de si mesmo . The Core would be laughably bad , if it did n't happen to be so bad that it was impossible to laugh at . Old-fashioned heroism and self-sacrifice . Good guys who use brains , not brawn . No kissing . Hillary Swank and Aaron Eckhart lead the latest adventure to save the world from natural forces ... YAWN . The brazen silliness of The Core is becalming and inauthentic , like taking a bath in nondairy coffee creamer . The Earth core 's inability to turn is mirrored in the cast 's inability to give the picture any spin . Should be a sci-fi screenwriter 's dream ; but this dream is more like one that Michael Crichton would have than Jules Verne , and there 's not a breath of imagination on display 'Simple pelcula palomera de la cual no se van a acordar nada a los cinco minutos de haber abandonado la sala de proyeccin ' 	A B-movie with its tongue planted firmly in cheek , The Core is so unintentionally ( intentionally ? ) bad that it 's a hoot .
im still here 2010 Perhaps it goes without saying that Here was more provocative when it could n't be seen , when it existed for most of us purely in the realm of rumor . The whole thing is such a tedious , foul-mouthed mess that it is n't even worth discussing as a riff on the Bob Dylan doc Do n't Look Back or a meditation on slovenly semi-madness . The worst thing about I 'm Still Here is the fact that it exists . It is on some level a recklessly orchestrated hoax and , yes , Phoenix , who must be crazy to allow himself to be depicted in this way , has lost his marbles . Casey Affleck 's I 'm Still Here is , in and of itself , the perfect metaphor for the cult of celebrity - alternately compelling , repugnant , fuelled by pretension and ego and fake as a $ 3 bill . It raises some interesting questions about celebrity privilege and categorization . Whatever the truth , Affleck 's film makes for a sharp critique of celebrity culture , as vicious vloggers lead a tirade of abuse against Phoenix , only serving to increase his angst . If what 's happening in the film is honest and real , it 's more spectacle than introspection . If it 's all fake , only the filmmakers are laughing . The film is shapeless in a way that suggests Affleck and his editing team is making it up entirely out of odds and ends . An elaborate piece of performance art or a documentary about an identity crisis of a man committing professional suicide ? Either way , I 'm Still Here is grating , boring , and completely without value . 	As unkempt and inscrutable as Joaquin Phoenix himself , I 'm Still Here raises some interesting questions about its subject , as well as the nature of celebrity , but it fails to answer many of them convincingly .
10010667-hangover It 's a non-stop laugh riot that 's destined to become a comedy classic . Great casting benefits the movie hugely , as does a premise centered around the mystery of what happened , but its choppy editing does it no favors . The director and his screenwriters have come up with the funniest film to appear in ages . It avoids the predictable crudity and silly laddishness ( well , almost ) you 'd expect , and delights with zinging one-liners and charming performances . Even though Apatow has no fingerprints over this movie , The Hangover follows in the same surprise-me tradition : It takes us to the dumb side but comes back with something unexpectedly affecting . It 's the funniest movie of the year . Phillips , with a script credited to Jon Lucas and Scott Moore ( and with loads of loose-limbed interpretations from the cast ) , captures the amity among a group of grown men set loose without spouses , girlfriends , or sobriety to hinder them . ( Or help . ) Amusing as it is , it never feels real . Lewd , crude and exceptionally rude , the gags come thick and fast . This is top stuff . There 's all the carnage , baps and humiliation you could want from a 15-rated comedy but it 's pegged around a smart plot that actually holds up . Take out the laughs , and The Hangover would still work as a gripping , if barmy thriller . The jokes and sight gags are hit and miss , but the plot and characters are compelling and it has a lot of twists and turns that keep you guessing right up to the end . 	With a clever script and hilarious interplay among the cast , The Hangover nails just the right tone of raunchy humor , and the non-stop laughs overshadow any flaw .
driving miss daisy Chief among the film 's rewards are the extraordinary performances of its trio of stars , Freeman , Tandy , and Aykroyd . Tandy and Freeman are terrific in this beautiful film about the commonalities between people who seem so different . Ultimately this is an intelligent feel-good movie that had Oscar material stamped all over the screenplay , but lacks the bite or insight that could have turned it into something truly special . Alfred Uhry 's adaptation of his Pulitzer-prizewinning play aspires more to complex observation of human behavior than to simple moralism about it . Precisely because it has its priorities straight , it succeeds superbly on both levels . This is Tandy 's finest two hours onscreen in a film career that goes back to 1932 . There just is not enough to turn this from a good film into a truly memorable one . Bruce Beresford gives a solid lift to his uneven career with his careful and colorful directing of Alfred Uhry 's screenplay , based on Mr. Uhry 's prize-winning stage play . Driving Miss Daisy makes the simple point that combating racism can sometimes mean confronting a part of ourselves that we 'd rather pretend does not exist . For Miss Daisy , it 's as simple as admitting that Hoke is not just her driver , but her best friend . It 's a bland but decent film that I liked without loving it . The movie also has something legitimate and instructive to say about the subtlety and intricacy of everyday race relations in the south during the period covered ( roughly 1948 to '73 ) . 	Warm and smartly paced , and boasting impeccable performances from Morgan Freeman and Jessica Tandy .
muse Appropriately enough , it seems that Brooks and Johnson needed a muse of their own to really make this film work . Clever , often hilarious . As a director , Brooks taps directly into Sharon Stone 's funny bone ; her glowing gift for comedy is enough to make you forgive and forget her many high-profile bombs . Smart , funny -- and edgy . Albert Brooks pulls off a deft satire of Hollywood that benefits greatly from the clever casting of Sharon Stone . A spectacular performance from Sharon Stone . Brooks ' gentle satire of Hollywood . The casting is so right , the inside-Hollywood zingers so wicked , the whimsical premise so fresh , that the occasional slack moments rarely get in the way . One of Brooks ' most broadly entertaining films . This intelligent if not entirely satisfactory film should please Brooks ' hardcore fans , but should have a harder time entertaining the average moviegoer . 	Despite quirky and original writing , the subject matter feels too removed to produce laughs .
catfish Opens with bursting promise of investigation , only to end up inside a particular quicksand of depression that 's far too substantial for the trio to process with any sort of desired , respectful intelligibility . definitely eerie and scary , though not in the traditional sense Whether its real or not is irrelevant . Catfish is an amazing , tense , charming , soulful , utterly surprising portrait about technology & psychology That is n't to say that this film does n't raise some provocative questions in an intriguing way -- it does . But in the end its answers seem just too pat , and frankly unrealistic . The `` wow '' factor of this movie evokes strong reactions and should get people talking ... Catfish is an example of documentary filmmakers shaping reality to suit their own storytelling needs . Twisty tale of social-media intrigue makes for crowd-pleasing doc . The true , almost nightmarish beauty of Catfish is the all too crystal clear mirror it holds up to its audience . ... to get to a respectable feature length , the directors have to stretch their thin material mercilessly . Whatever your reaction to the moral and ethical decisions made by the filmmakers , you 'll find Catfish fascinating on a broader level as a snapshot of a rapidly changing era ... 	Catfish may tread the line between real-life drama and crass exploitation a little too unsteadily for some viewers ' tastes , but its timely premise and tightly wound mystery make for a gripping documentary .
hours Daldry envisions a world where EVERY woman is born both depressed and a lesbian . That 's their natural state , and to deny it is to somehow rob them of their ultimate goal in life : to run away from their problems or kill themselves . This is easily one of the year 's best pictures , and Oscar will surely take note . Rarely does such high-profile talent serve such literate material . This is my kind of film , it 's about suicide , insanity , depression , terminal illness , Aids , and lesbianism . The Hours shows that film can surpass the sort of psedo-lyrical prose that tends to win Pulitzers and Pen-Faulkners . A breathtaking experience . The Hours makes you examine your own life in much the same way its characters do , and the experience is profound . The Hours is what movies are supposed to be ... It would be all too precious to watch except for the brilliant performances , which make it too wonderful not to watch . A boldly realised , affecting work . One of the best films of the year . 	The movie may be a downer , but it packs an emotional wallop . Some fine acting on display here .
1153228-the ringer Knoxville gives an amazingly risky performance -- how many actors would have dared to do this ? The Ringer could have been a better movie , but that would have depended more on the screenplay than the cast , which is effective and generates real affection . The Ringer is astoundingly craptastic not because the handicapped are handled poorly ... but because it 's one of the most singularly unfunny films ever made . The Ringer is too safe , too scaredy-cat to rile up paying customers . ... a whole lot better than one might 've expected . a marshmallow script that takes no risks with the material The worthwhile bits are few and far between . In the rush to avoid exploiting the athletes , the filmmakers have stuck it to the audience instead . Not funny . Surprisingly sweet and unexpectedly positive . There 's something about a movie deft enough to have fun with mental disability , yet still get a stamp of approval from the Special Olympics . A hilarious and resourceful cast of intellectually challenged actors smartens up an otherwise brain-dead comedy produced by the Farrelly brothers . 	Despite a few laughs and good intentions , The Ringer is too predictable to really score the points it aims for .
macbeth 2015 The script , basically , is obsessed with dead , dying or doomed kids and , thanks to the chemistry between the big names and the young cast , the effect is intense . Macbeth has been previously well served by Roman Polanski and Akira Kurosawa but Kurzel has fashioned a pared-down success of his own . Shakespeare 's Scottish play returns to the big screen with earthy energy , visual style and roaring performances . No matter how heightened this Macbeth gets , it always feels lived-in . Inspired , innovative , stunning , with unforgettable performances and images , this is up there with the great screen Shakespeares . One of the most cinematic Shakespeare adaptations ever put to screen ... as compelling in its moments without dialogue as it is when the characters are speaking . An intensely compelling work . Definitive telling of Billy S 's play this may not be , but as an entertaining/effective variation upon them it 's a remarkable work . With visuals as dark and brooding as its titular character , it stands well alongside its peers while carving its own path . Fassbender , as Macbeth , is bristling and demented in equal measure ; Cotillard , as Lady Macbeth , is creepy and enthralling . Justin Kurzel 's film is most compelling when advancing its familiar plot through associative editing . 	Faithful to the source material without sacrificing its own cinematic flair , Justin Kurzel 's Macbeth rises on the strength of a mesmerizing Michael Fassbender performance to join the upper echelon of big-screen Shakespeare adaptations .
1131148-ned kelly Ledger , talking into his chest for much of the film in an apparent effort to lend gravity to his performance , is pretty stiff , but so is Jordan 's direction . There is a potent national epic struggling to find expression here , but this movie is too rushed and fragmented to do it justice . A leaden retelling of the legend of Australia 's Jesse James that has understandably been sitting on the shelf for a couple of years . When the whole thing 's over , we 're left with almost no sense of why this story has been such an enduring part of Australian pop culture and national identity for the last 125 years . Manages to shrink the grandness of the myth without clarifying our understanding of the man . Heath Ledger makes this good guy gone bad seem worthy of his legendary status - he makes it easy to root for the outlaws . Director Jordan fails to deliver a film worthy of such mythical figure . To get swept up by the hagiographic treatment and to be all that interested in every nuance of this fellow 's development , one might really need to be Australian . In a genre where the good guys and the bad guys can often be distinguished by the color of their hats , Ned Kelly is most welcome ... a good guy who is also a bad guy . Ned Kelly suggests that not only do you not need anything of interest to watch , but you do n't even need to see it at all . 	More depth about the legendary outlaw would be welcome , but as it is , Ned Kelly is a reasonably entertaining Western .
1175569-lars and the real girl This is a film whose daring and delicate blend of apparent irreconcilables will sweep you off your feet if you 're not careful . A plea for compassion and understanding ; its lack of the negative side of human nature almost makes it seem desperate in that regard , but overall it 's deft at achieving its goal . Lars and the Real Girl shares the optimism and sense of community of gems like The Station Agent , You Can Count on Me and Junebug . A truly warm and wonderful film that work by using simpler storytelling to explore very deep human emotions . Lars is played by the endlessly fascinating Ryan Gosling , who perhaps has too much of a taste for damaged characters , but manages the tricky task of both playing Lars ' feelings and hinting at their motivations . Often howlingly funny , and the actors are a treat . This script by Nancy Oliver ( Six Feet Under ) is a delicate , bittersweet , and often sad story of a lost , fragile man and the people who love him . What could have been cloying or absurd is instead endearing , even if the film is somewhat too long for its conceit . While the film pulls a few punches , its off-kilter sweetness is as inoffensive and likable as a tepid cup of cocoa . One of the strangest , funniest and most romantic movies you 're likely to see . 	Lars and the Real Girl could 've so easily been a one-joke movie . But the talented cast , a great script , and direction never condescends to its character or the audience .
true lies The fun of an elaborately scaled comic suspense thriller is that , no matter how spectacular the stunts are , the hero always seems to be operating out of the purest pragmatism . Providing its share of fun in stretches , pic ultimately overstays its welcome with a level of mayhem that will simply feel like too much for any marginal fan of the genre . Once you get past the stunning special effects and the mind-numbing stuntwork , there 's not all that much there . Although it 's Cameron 's weakest feature , it 's still pretty good . Its long detour into an unnecessary and unpleasant sub-plot left me with a very bad taste in my mouth . This is an excellent picture . True Lies , far too technologically bloated for its cartoony plot , overestimates the human tolerance for high-tech mayhem . On the basis of stunts , special effects and pure action , it delivers sensationally . As this comedy of manners unfolds , it is played for all-out action as well as satiric humor . Though not as irksome and irritating as Schwarzenegger 's Last Action Hero , this James Cameron actioner is more of a big technical machine than a story which is senseless . 	If it does n't reach the heights of director James Cameron 's and star Arnold Schwarzenegger 's previous collaborations , True Lies still packs enough action and humor into its sometimes absurd plot to entertain .
red riding trilogy Grisoni demands rapt attention by keeping the intentions and the primary plot threads hidden . You care about getting to the bottom of the mystery , but even if this had ended without a resolution , that would n't have detracted from the gripping drama . Thematically adventurous ... the bloody shocks that paint the town Red emerge from suburban squalor : dirty streets , dirty crimes , and dirty politicians . [ Blu-ray ] This is the sort of undertaking the BBC excels at , and is approached in the United States only by ambitious cable TV series . It 's an awfully interesting series of movies . An impressively detailed work of societal rot originally presented on British television , now arriving in theaters as three separate films . The level of corruption , police violence and `` we do what we bloody want '' mentality is genuinely shocking , making the serial killings seem almost like a symptom of a community that has become rotten to the core . This ambitious , unique project , originally made for British television , is well worth the time investment to see the three-film marathon on a big screen . a surprisingly rich and remarkably singular moviegoing experience . The movie skirts the edges of a standard police procedural , but it seems literally contaminated by corruption ; it seeps in through the edges and gets denser and ranker as the stories go along . Red Riding just keeps getting creepier and creepier . And better and better . 	This crime drama features great performances and the three directors make the setting -- 1970s and 1980s Yorkshire -- an immersive , gritty , and dangerous place .
jackass 3 I 'm getting old , Knoxville is getting old and `` it '' is getting old . `` It '' is the Jackass franchise , the 10-year-old extreme prank war resulting in more lawsuits and testicular mishaps than Brett Favre 's sexts . The real quibble with the film is that while a few stunts raise some decent laughs , too much of Jackass 3D relies on grossness for its own sake , which can become a tad tedious If physical comedy 's overriding purpose is to make fools laugh out loud , then the first two Jackass films should be regarded alongside Buster Keaton 's slapstick classics . Knoxville would never admit to such loser taste , but he and his friends are obviously scholars of The Divine Comedy , from which they plagiarized all of their ideas ... If you like watching guys subject themselves to insanely stupid and dangerous stunts and pranks , than by all means , this is the film for you . Just keep a vomit bag handy . Ten years after debuting their hopelessly juvenile reality stunt show on MTV , the people behind Jackass still have n't grown up at all -- and thank god for that . Jackass 3D has its moments , but it lacks the ingenuity and hilarity of the previous films -- no doubt in large part because of the aging process . More than ever , Johnny Knoxville and his boys belong to a very elite club of idiocy . Whether one enjoys witnessing their antics or not ... one should be , I suppose , very glad that one does n't actually have to hang out with these fellows , their obvious camaraderie notwithstanding . Their third and worst film will appeal most to the evolutionally challenged and anyone who retains an infantile obsession with bodily waste . 	The Jackass gang might be running out of gross-out stunts , but this installment contains plenty of brilliantly brain-dead comedy -- and the 3-D adds a pungent new dimension .
before sunrise This is one of only a small number of films that can transport us back to the surprises , delights , and enchantments of a first encounter . Linklater captures romance at the sunset of gadget-free existence ... holy moments when no gadget or lens comes between us and our immediate company and surroundings . Hawke and Delpy keep the tone not only afloat but mesmerizing . So natural are their performances that it seems impossible not to believe they truly are soulmates who are locked in a doomed , all-too-short affair . ... a bittersweet celebration of romantic frisson - the notion that our most precious moments of connection are often the fleeting ones . the film asks us to consider the very nature and purpose of our existence in a fragmentary , superficial and transient universe . It 's the best pick up movie ever . Agreeably alluring . Inspired by Godard 's lyrical film-essays , Linklater revisits his unreleased debut ( also set on a train ) , while paying tribute to Rohmer 's cerebral moral fables . Though narrower in scope , this film is more mature and generous than previous efforts . Undoubtedly one of the most romantic movies of all time ... como testemunhar duas pessoas se apaixonando uma pela outra em tempo real : algo simultaneamente mgico , comovente e de partir o corao . 	Thought-provoking and beautifully filmed , Before Sunrise is an intelligent , unabashedly romantic look at modern love , led by marvelously natural performances from Ethan Hawke and Julie Delpy .
milk Finely wrought film conveys the humanity of the main character while never devolving into hagiography . A slice of history well worth revisiting . Milk is one of the most heartfelt portraits of a politician ever made -- the man himself remains just out of reach . Director Gus Van Sant 's storytelling approach , expansive yet always intimate , works in tandem with Sean Penn 's masterful performance to create a loving , humanistic tribute to a San Francisco icon . Milk is a film about the politics of sex , in which the political process itself not only takes precedence over but seems to stand in for the complexities of real life sexuality . Transcends the solemnity of its historical duty , seeming both timely and timeless -- and fully alive . Milk was murdered 30 years ago . The exceptional The Times of Harvey Milk won the Oscar for Best Documentary 24 years ago ... . Yet , all this time later ... Hollywood wants us to applaud its courage for finally -- finally -- telling this story ? Its insight forms eerie parallels with the ongoing movement for which San Francisco Supervisor Harvey Milk gave his life . Yes , there is enough gay heat in the movie to pasteurize Richard Simmons ' swimming pool % u2013 and allegedly the longest man-on-man kiss of any mainstream movie . I credit Director Gus Van Sant for keeping it real and authentic and not diluting the tone to With Milk , a great San Francisco story becomes a great American story . 	Anchored by Sean Penn 's powerhouse performance , Milk is a triumphant account of America 's first openly gay man elected to public office .
assault on precinct 13 A smartly assembled noir package . My preference for the remake over the original has more to do with its harsh representation of contemporary state corruption and its unsentimental ethical distinctions than with its success as a thriller . It provides some escapist entertainment , insofar as seeing people try to kill each other constitutes 'escapism . ' ( What would you be escaping from ? Pleasantness ? ) The fluidity of relationships as loyalties shift gives this story extra energy and sizzle that takes it beyond the usual shoot-out and explosion-movie standard . I 'm still trying to recover from this action film 's relentless suspense . An assault to your intelligence , and an assault on your ears and eyes . The central problem with this [ film ] is its essential uselessness . It does its job , I guess . But the job was already done a lot better a long time ago . It 's a good old-fashioned shoot-'em-up with a few nice twists and some very good acting . Assault on Precinct 13 is fun , engaging , and a little clichd , but amongst the recent crop of bland action films for the whole family , it stands tall as an example of how to do one right . Expect no surprises from yet another needless remake . 	This remake has been praised by some as an expertly made B-movie , and dismissed by others as formulaic .
nightmare before christmas The hippest of all holiday classics , the 1993 release rendered anew in 3-D format remains a postmodern three-ring circus of morbid humor , eye-popping puppet animation and show-stopping songs . Part avant-garde art film , part amusing but morbid fairy tale , it is a delightfully ghoulish holiday musical that displays more inventiveness in its brief 75 minutes than some studios can manage in an entire year . A well-realized and weirdly amusing animated treat . A magical celebration of the imagination . Annoying music by Danny Elfman . The dazzling techniques employed here create a strikinglook that 's never been seen in such sustained form , making this a unique curio that will appeal to kids and film enthusiasts alike . From the on-again off-again career of Tim Burton comes a film so original and incredibly creative that it genuinely is unlikely to be surpassed as a holiday film for decades . The Nightmare Before Christmas is perhaps the first movie that is delightfully horrible , gruesomely sweet and wholesome . Re-imagining `` The Nightmare Before Christmas '' as a three dimensional film has taken Henry Selick 's modern masterwork and turned it into a timeless classic . The characters are vivid and often hilariously revolting ... . Visually , the film is absolutely gorgeous . 	The Nightmare Before Christmas is a stunningly original and visually delightful work of stop-motion animation .
skinwalkers A hastily-edited-to-a-PG-13 werewolf movie , with acting so dreadful it makes Troll 2 look like a Mercury Theater production . stinks like a mangy animal 's fetid coat Werewolves ride into town on motorcycles , sporting dark sunglasses , shaggy but mostly human except for pearly white canine teeth . Sorry , dudes , but no amount of jump cutting , death metal or slow motion is going to make you look anything but ridiculous . A throwback to workmanlike '70s and '80s-era low-budget action thrillers . Skinwalkers may be an attempt to reinvent a myth . But this bloodless dog is n't exactly a life-saving transfusion for a genre that has n't shown signs of life in years . To borrow that immortal self-critiquing line from director James Isacc 's own Jason X , 'This sucks on so many levels . ' Yawningly directed by Jim Isaac , Skinwalkers is a slavering mess that buries its clunky addiction metaphor beneath a welter of genre clichs , all delivered in extra-slow motion . You 'll laugh and roll your eyes , but at least you wo n't be annoyed . A werewolf movie so bad it merits a silver bullet . Why make a serious , no-holds-barred horror film about werewolves when you can make a PG-13 kiddie show free of all the elements an audience goes to see this kind of movie for ? 	Skinwalkers is an atrociously-acted project whose unoriginal and ineptly-staged action sequences remind viewers of far better werewolf and action movies .
the gallows A wonderfully tense throwback to horror movies that managed to build suspense with few budgetary resources . ... are teens so narcissistic today that they film themselves crying into their phones waiting to be killed off ? Maybe they should have called this 'The Shallows . ' Formulaic horror movie benefits from unusual setting but will still feel all-too-familiar to the genre fans who constitute its primary audience . Herky-jerky hand-held camerawork , annoying characters ... and a serious absence of anything resembling a spooky jolt makes The Gallows ' not-so-hot market rival Insidious : Chapter 3 suddenly look very good indeed . Unpleasant characters do things that make no sense in 'found footage ' clearly edited together from multiple sources . Negligent storytelling at its worst . Too quickly , it 's all just blurry camera work and noise - with neither scares nor drama . After a while , the cameras start to flash `` low battery '' and `` power save '' warnings , but only the cacophony of booming rumbles and loud BANGS stopped me from drifting into `` sleep mode '' . The filmmakers needed to set themselves free even more than the characters , but they never find the path out . They probably never realized they were trapped . The Gallows is a lazy and incompetent production on just about every level , from the writing and directing to the acting and the camerawork . The handful of intense second-half jolts do n't lead to consistent suspense because the contrived script is so riddled with logical gaps , and because the airheaded characters lack basic common sense . 	Narratively contrived and visually a mess , The Gallows sends viewers on a shaky tumble to the bottom of the found-footage horror barrel .
cache 2005 An ingeniously open-ended sort of post-millennial Rashomon , in which truths cemented by technological recordings could still be interpreted as virtual lies . This is a film you will be discussing for days , trying to figure out what actually happened and why . Any work of art that embarrasses us for inclining toward warmth or decency ( or , God forbid , humor ) ought to be distrusted . On the other hand , I have found myself unable to shake Cach . Soon as this quietly terrifying film starts , the unease starts to fester . Cach encourages us to look -- and then to look harder . It 's a head-scratcher , and a particularly fine one at that . A creepy , complicitous thriller that ratchets up the tension even as it asks us to study the mechanics of film fright . Haneke does n't just communicate anything to be left up to the viewer ; he stacks up many ideas for the viewer to pick through . ... a brilliantly sinister mystery fraught with guilt , deceit and denial . Chillingly reminds us that in life , love , family and politics , we never know the full story . And someone is always watching . 	A creepy French psychological thriller that commands the audience 's attention throughout .
resurrecting the champ ... Jackson has never done subtler , more powerful work . Hartnett seems to be getting better with every performance , and it 's stunning to watch Jackson slip so effortlessly into a character so far removed from his well-defined persona . The manner in which the subversion of expectation aids in and deepens one 's appreciation is attributable to advertising that reduces the story to the simple theme of uplift . Resurrecting the Champ is a movie I was going to recommend . It was contrived and dopey , but it seemed like pleasant entertainment . Then came the terrible last ten minutes when it casts itself on the rancid junk heap of hokum . Even if it does n't bring the nearly dead boxing film back to life , Resurrection offers a revealing peek into reporting and the ways it can go wrong , coming from the best or most crass intentions . Though sensitively acted by Jackson , this solemn sermonette from Rod Lurie struggles to get off the ropes and never quite establishes its rhythm . Resurrecting the Champ raises some interesting questions about the price of success and whether the cost it has on our loved ones is worth it . a must see for the performances This is a story that anyone should be able to relate to because we all fall short of perfection . Slow in the father-son heart to heart parts , Champ brings it all back home in the end with a great story line and saving performances by Jackson , Alda and Hatcher 	While sluggish in spots , Resurrecting the Champ is a sports/newsroom drama elevated by high-caliber performances by Samuel Jackson , Josh Hartnet , and Alan Alda .
1211199-last night Shallow without being fun or sexy , the picture is a well-meaning but ponderous bore . The characters are dull , their ruminations tedious and uninvolving and the relationship insights banal . Tadjedin shows an intimate understanding of how couples communicate through ellipses and of all that remains unsaid even amid torrents of angry words . It 's quite enjoyable , and the ending is very good -- I just did n't believe a moment of it . A kinder , chicer Adrian Lyne movie . Here , as in a cosmetics ad , the performers are assigned to telegraph desire as characters defined by visual stereotype , their empty chatter decorated with facile metaphors . Forget about sex or adultery -- there is n't enough life in Last Night . A well-acted , intellectually ambitious and emotionally honest roundelay of enticement . The film stands out as a rare example of a work more interested in evoking universal thoughtfulness than telling its audience what to think . It 's a quiet , contemplative film that reminded me of Mike Nichols ' Closer , with too many shots of lighting cigarettes and looking pensive in train windows , but I liked it . The glossy Manhattan footage , as hermetic as Woody Allen 's rendition of New York , is engagingly expensive-looking at least , but the cast is barely given anything to work with . While it 's initially hard to care much about characters this privileged , the emotions and situations are ones we can all relate to . 	Last Night does n't opt for easy answers , but the framework and characters overall are too slight and plain to be compelling .
outfoxed rupert murdochs war on journalism The little brother to Fahrenheit 9/11 . Each will divide their audience based on their political beliefs , despite not being particularly well made . Succeeds in hoisting Fox News by its own petard . Greenwald 's approach may not be balanced , but it seems pretty fair . The kind of broader analysis that makes `` Outfoxed '' worthwhile viewing even for those who do n't have Air America as one of their preset stations . While Outfoxed surely will appeal more to liberals than to conservatives , its value to its self-selected audience lies not in upending anyone 's expectations , but in taking the uninitiated down the Fox News rabbit hole . Good if obvious indictment of Fox News , but I would 've liked more on how the network has hurt other journalists ' efforts to find the truth . Provides stimulating evidence of how thoroughly news can be skewed , political agendas served and a climate of fear created . Outfoxed manages to be political without being sanctimonious . As one-sided as Fox News is , but at least it does n't pretend to be otherwise , and it 's much more fun to watch . For independent thinkers and those who think of journalism as a profession of accuracy , fairness and ethics , there 's more than enough to chew on . Greenwald has fashioned a fine attack dog , and he 's sicced it on a deserving subject . 	Neither fair nor balanced itself , Outfoxed offers an often entertaining indictment of the Fox News Channel .
karate kid 2010 So , part propaganda piece ( will everyone in Detroit start packing ? ) and mostly predictable , warmed-over rehash , I 'm guessing most young girl fans of Will Smith 's son will find Jaden to be the cat 's meow in his first starring role . Jaden Smith is the perfect mix of cockiness and vulnerability and , taking after his old man Will , the kid can deliver the funnies too . The remake of The Karate Kid impresses with its craft and its patience . The result is a raucous little crowd-pleaser that 'll entertain 6 to 60 and might even encourage a few of the more doughy audience members to get off that couch and lace up the ol ' workout sneakers . Enjoyable , if slightly overlong remake that wo n't trample anyone 's fond memories of the original film , thanks to a strong script , impressive direction and superb performances from Jaden Smith and Jackie Chan . The story 's good intentions survive , largely because of Chan 's way of tenderising his approach to martial arts with humour and humility . While nobody 's going to blame the failure of a major Hollywood movie on a pre-teen , there 's no denying Smith 's character could use a bit of a smack . Sulky , spoilt and frighteningly self-possessed , he 's the picture of American arrogance . Just the awkward sight of a precocious , overly confident kid with limited natural ability and not enough technical skill being pushed front-and-centre to carry a movie he 's not yet ready to carry . The action sequences , as expected with Chan , are amazing . These , along with a snappy pace , stunning locations and credible performances , counterbalance the film 's overlong running time . What should have been yet another unnecessary , not-as-good-as-the-original is actually miles , miles better . 	It may not be as powerful as the 1984 edition , but the 2010 Karate Kid delivers a surprisingly satisfying update on the original .
love-and-other-drugs In his first decent stab at comedy , Gyllenhaal 's considerable brio helps sell the film , though Zwick 's erratic direction make for an awkward , emotionally jumbled ride . Finally , after years of suffering through Hollywood 's predictable pap , sentimental mush , boring bromances and mean girl clichs , comes a love story that is actually worth falling for ... There 's laughter and fun here , but also a melancholy note that extends throughout the film , which is what grounds it so firmly in a recognisable reality ; and makes the film satisfying This movie is far from your standard romantic comedy . It 's a deeper film that touches on heavier emotional moments . [ Its ] restlessness and lack of conviction make it both fascinating and frustrating . By no means perfect , but Gyllenhaal and Hathaway are a match made in heaven . Relationships , sex and vulnerability are the themes of this romantic drama that offers a compelling prescription for a complex journey , complete with side effects If this film was a drug , you might ask for your money back , but you could just as easily find yourself riding high on the placebo effect . In the end , this is a smart movie that could have been smarter . The script feels like it was a draft or so away from total clarity and focus . But the energy of the cast and a dive into an unfamiliar world make the movie rather addictive . It 's a real breath of fresh air and a welcome departure from the silly recycled rom-coms we 're subjected to far , far too often . 	It 's a pleasure to see Hollywood produce a romance this refreshingly adult , but Love and Other Drugs struggles to find a balance between its disparate plot elements .
kurt cobain montage of heck 2015 Morgen teases out aspects of Cobain 's life that had been largely overlooked , in particular his intense ambition to succeed and his huge fear of humiliation if he did n't . Morgen 's lacerating collage swirls stock footage , animated interludes and brilliantly edited music cues into a slippery , impressionistic rendering , pitched at the wail of a soul in agony . This powerful film conjures Cobain 's full presence . He seems to stand ( and leap and fall and crawl ) before us , and it 's a mesmerizing sight . Gets you right inside Cobain 's head - not always a pleasant place to be . Obviously a must-see . Ultimately it 's a film that did n't need this many bells and whistles for it to pack an almighty punch . A big part of Cobain 's music was about expressing his inner turmoil , and this movie accomplishes that again in ways that are often unexpected and moving . A fascinating mix of archival and new materials creates a virtual autobiography for legendary grunge trio Nirvana 's late leader . deft and fascinating I could n't keep myself from mouthing the words . I could n't keep the sobs from rising in my throat . It 's a striking portrait of a pivotal figure . 	Kurt Cobain : Montage of Heck makes a persuasive case for its subject without resorting to hagiography -- and includes plenty of rare and unreleased footage for fans .
tsotsi Unabashedly poignant , it 's a moody , gritty gangster saga with a stark sense of reality . The Johannesburg equivalent of any stateside gangster fairy tale , Tsotsi actually feels even more forced than Hollywood 's modern urban dramas . Wearing its humanism on its sleeves , this melodrama about the redemption of a thug is the kind of middlebrow fare that appeals to Oscar voters , increasing its chance to win Best Foreign-Language Picture . After ... the powerful 15-minute opening , it 's a long road ahead to redemption . [ Director ] Hood gives the film energy by its unexpected locations , a score both jolting and soaring , and a carefully constructed screenplay that makes everyone in this film a dimensional , complicated character . Tsotsi remains at all times an intensely human story , one that transcends the particulars of its time and its place . Originally set in the 1950s , Tsotsi 's story was updated to the postapartheid present to prove a sharp point : For many black South Africans , little has changed . This Oscar-nominated film convincingly celebrates the embers of decency that can be found in fires that are all but banked . Gavin Hood keeps the movie moving at a breezy , unsentimental clip with a fast-paced , gritty style similar to City Of God . That the story can be so easily transposed to the post-apartheid present day is one of the movie 's saddest inferences . 	Chweneyagae 's powerful performance carries this simple yet searing tale of a shantytown teenager 's redemption .
valentines day 2010 Director Garry Marshall bounces so quickly from story to story that by the time you see so-and-so shtupping so-and-so again , you 've forgotten which dramarama belongs to whom . As I started to type out the plot threads , it struck me that none of the storylines are that interesting to read . They are n't that much fun to watch either . About as personal and memorable as a seasonal card your significant other snatches up from a local Duane Reade at the last minute . It 's got a cold , shiny cash register right where its heart should be . Too cocooned in its own shiny little Hollywood world to be called cynical , but in no genuine way romantic or comedic either . It has the radiant glow of a Hollywood pitch meeting . 'Valentine 's Day ' is one of the worst romantic comedies assembled . It does a serious injustice to the holiday . Marshall , working from a script by Katherine Fugate , probably would have done better to pare some of the elements to concentrate more fully on ... something . His golf game , maybe . More geared to celebrity-spotting than cinematic storytelling , it 's fluffy and flimsy . The film seems like a package deal arranged by a talent agency that found half its stars were idle for a day or two over a three-week period . 	Eager to please and stuffed with stars , Valentine 's Day squanders its promise with a frantic , episodic plot and an abundance of rom-com cliches .
yossi and jagger It 's short , sweet , romantic , and leaves you wanting more . A searing , tense and beautifully told film . A moving and admirably lean new wrinkle on the wartime romance genre . If Yossi & Jagger is any indication , Mr. Fox has a bright future . Performances are crisp , as is everything else about this vital , economical film , proof that less really can be more . This beautiful , deceptively simple coming-out story martyrs one of its titular characters in order to free the other from his closet . The movie is slight but extremely effective , and its characters so engaging that even the sad finale , which is not entirely unexpected or original , manages to pack surprising power . I 'm the first one to appreciate economy of expression , but the difference between economical and underdeveloped is what 's at issue here . It well depicts the uneasy relationships among the soldiers . Levi and Knoller are so natural , so unconcerned with mugging for the camera , that what could have been a corny love story on paper is utterly sincere and touching on screen . 	A tersely told yet deeply felt romance .
merchants of doubt ... turns repetitive in spots and clearly is taking sides , but it assembles the abundant interviews and statistics into a compelling package . Shows how a bunko artist is a bunko artist , whether on a corner or on CNN . Subtle , it 's not . But it is effective . On the whole , it has a great deal of important information presented in a lively way , and it has the power to get you riled up . Robert Kenner 's documentary is an effective takedown of the ways that PR efforts to discredit science have shifted from helping protect Big Tobacco 's profits to fueling the climate change denial movement . That money is the root of all evil is hardly news , but Kenner 's documentary is more than just a plaint against corruption . He is , for one thing , a first-rate filmmaker . Merchants of Doubt should n't be a hard sell . The fact that it is should make you very mad . A chilling documentary showing how the cigarette , asbestos , fossil fuel and other industries manipulate scientific evidence . This is a movie so intrigued by its designated villains that it almost conveys a perverse form of admiration , and the fascination proves contagious . ... largely preaches to the left-leaning choir with plenty of hissable sound bites and a generally glib tone that undercuts an otherwise understandable sense of righteous indignation . 	Merchants of Doubt is a thought-provoking documentary assembled with energy and style , even if it does n't dig as deep as it could .
only lovers left alive If you are able to tolerate the quiet and smooth tempo of Jarmusch , this is a great story . It 's always a thrill to see what an artist as singular as Jarmusch will do next . I just wish that his foray into the world of the undead had a little more to sink its beautiful fangs into . `` Only Lovers Left Alive '' breathes new and intriguing life into the vampire genre . American Director Jim Jarmusch has the soul of an old rocker and he reflects it perfectly in this story of vampire love . `` Only Lovers Left Alive '' marks an artist 's welcome return . And the much-needed rescue of a classic monster from the grubby grip of tween novels . I ca n't even think where to start in trying to cut him some slack on `` Only Lovers Left Alive , '' which is a priggish film full of in-group references that will provide a-ha moments for those in the know . Jim Jarmusch is a cool dude of a filmmaker and his latest take on vampires in Only Lovers Left Alive is very cool indeed . It 's so elegant and dreamlike-such a departure from most vampire epics-that you wo n't be bored . It also has a wicked sense of humor you usually do n't find in the genre . As in most pipe dreams , there are a few stumbling blocks . Ms. Swinton and Mr. Hiddleston complement each other so elegantly that languor gives way to a genuinely affecting-and erotic-love story . 	Worth watching for Tom Hiddleston and Tilda Swinton 's performances alone , Only Lovers Left Alive finds writer-director Jim Jarmusch adding a typically offbeat entry to the vampire genre .
limey Much of the entertainment comes from the film 's autumnal mood , and watching Fonda and Stamp work their characters . I was distracted to the point of contention at several points in The Limey by cinematic technique . I must write that Stamp 's mesmerizing performance eventually drew me back in , every time . One of the smartest and honestly exciting movies of the year ! Featuring frequent jump cuts and fast action interlaced with moments of solitude , the movie has a dazzlingly impressive style . It 'll serve as perhaps the final reminder of what was once [ Soderbergh 's ] great career . Sleek , gemlike . Stamp is the elder statesman of intelligent counterculture cinema , and his performance here makes what is otherwise a lackluster project come energetically alive . Work with this one , it 's worth the effort . [ Stamp ] has n't had a role like this since his heyday in the '60s and he shows he has been overlooked far too long . A first-rate crime thriller and further proof that director Stephen Soderbergh is one of our great contemporary film stylists . 	Crafted with eccentric moodiness and style by Steven Soderbergh , The Limey is also a gritty neo-noir showcase for the talent of leading man Terence Stamp .
family stone [ The film ] at times approximates the cozy hostility that can permeate real-life family gatherings . But then the movie 's snap turns to sap , and edgy comedy becomes standard gazing-at-the-Christmas-tree warm fuzziness . Let 's just call it Meet the Stepmom for the Holidays and be done with it . So determined to pair everyone up , whether logically or not , you 'd think Noah 's Ark was coming to town The Family Stone is almost totally emotionally bankrupt . a gob of yuletide Play-Doh I ca n't deny the incidental pleasures of watching these talented players giving it their all , even in such a misguided project . Though the laughs are intact , serious subplots ... add an unwelcome weight that shifts the whole thing off-kilter . The Stone 's cruelty is a delight , especially when it turns out Parker actually is a giant loser . A film that is staggeringly accurate , sometimes painfully accurate , in capturing the dynamic of a smart , funny , tightly knit family unit . Moments of high hilarity and cringe-inducing honesty are scattered throughout The Family Stone . 	This family holiday dramedy features fine performances but awkward shifts of tone .
when did you last see your father Director Anand Tucker has moved quickly past the execrable Steve Martin vehicle Shopgirl with a solid , thoughtful , character-driven film . ... a disappointingly by-the-numbers drama that rarely lives up to the effectiveness of its performances . The movie is slick and treacly and goes nowhere that has n't been gone before . A keen and candid subjective scrutiny of parenting through the eyes of a damaged offspring , but a relentlessly grim , insular perspective that rarely ventures outside those long festering psychological wounds . Blake Morrison 's pain is invasive and all-embracing as recounted in his book and repeated in this adaptation , which is a wake and a weep for a father lost to male failures of communication . Delivers the expected to audiences seeking intelligent , engaging entertainment with some tasteful melodramatic twists . Though ... well-acted by Firth , Broadbent and Juliet Stevenson , the slow pacing makes it feel as if everyone is walking through a waist-deep bog of emotional reserve . Even bedridden , Broadbent walks away with the film ; his son 's never outshone him and Firth ca n't do much besides sulk . Tucker keeps things subdued almost to the point of inertia . A tender and moving Britflick that 's sure to land a couple of Bafta noms next year . 	Sensitive to a fault , Tucker 's adaptation of the Morrison novel is nonetheless solidly scripted and well-acted ; guard your heartstrings .
the holiday About as far removed from burning your bra as you can get . Too much of this chick flick feels like work , with the unfortunately long running time sandbagging it with a kind of cinematic jet lag . ... The story goes on at untoward length . This melding of comedic minds is one of the better holiday gifts we 've received , cinematically speaking . 'The Holiday ' is a fun , warm , and lighthearted romantic comedy that 's easy to settle into . The problem with Nancy Meyer 's romantic comedy The Holiday is that it is contrived , too long , and insufferably cute . As a voracious consumer of chick media ( I like alien shoot 'em ups too ! ) , I tell you that the story arc is extremely surprising & delightful , and that you fellas can feel safe watching this as well . This romantic comedy ends up feeling soggy , syrupy and so bloating it 'll put you to sleep before the pudding 's done . Although it could be too sugary for some , The Holiday is a little treat worth savoring this Christmas season . Sweet , sentimental and sickly . Watching The Holiday is a little like ordering a sticky cinnamon bun : You know the gooey , warm sweetness will taste good , but you 'll feel guilty eating it . 	The Holiday , while sweet and somewhat touching , lacks any surprises and eventually overstays its welcome .
los angeles plays itself An ultimate movie clip junkie film , a video store fantasy with a pulse and a brain . I will dispense with my objections by saying that , with so much on his mind , Andersen sometimes organizes the work in the manner of a saloon orator : 'And another thing . ' Apart from that , though , I like pretty much everything he 's done . One of the great films of the century to date , poignant and affecting . Watching this film is like spending an evening with a prickly , opinionated , thoughtful cineaste friend -- one who has a vast stock of DVDs at the ready . An ingenious , if somewhat dry and overlong , account of how the movies have depicted the various textures , tensions and ambiguities that make up the City of Angels . CalArts professor Thom Andersen poured a lifetime of moviegoing ( and his own complex affection for the city he calls home ) into this revelatory two-part documentary , a film that trains you to look at things askew . We see a scene of the hilltop 'Hollywood ' letters crumbling in flames , and it 's more like a joke than a tragedy . So much for the soul of Los Angeles . Ten years on , we can finally call this film a classic . It 's an unparalleled work of social and cultural study . The new , remastered cut means it looks better than ever . Mr. Andersen takes movies involving his hometown as his subject , his source of evidence , and the target of a thought-provoking if sometimes crabby indictment . Brilliantly discursive , filled with intriguing detours that follow connections only the director 's mind could make , Los Angeles Plays Itself , will please natives of this city more than any other . 	A treat for cinephiles , this documentary is a comprehensive , academic , and enlightening film essay concerning Los Angeles and its depiction in the movies .
national lampoons van wilder While not for every taste , this often very funny collegiate gross-out comedy goes a long way toward restoring the luster of the National Lampoon film franchise , too long reduced to direct-to-video irrelevancy . Another week , another gross-out college comedy -- ugh . When Van Wilder sticks to its wits , its comedy is unstoppable . But ... there 's an equal ( amount ) of acute unoriginality and beyond-belief bad taste . The filmmakers use the fact they are making a film about underachieving as an excuse to do just that and Van Wilder , while aspiring to be Ferris Bueller , comes off more like Grange Hill 's Roland Browning While it may look like any other campus comedy at first glance , Van Wilder is actually different from the rest , with its refreshing , fun-filled and wacky script . Even Vegas Vacation was wise enough to distance itself from the humorists responsible for such comedy landmarks as Loaded Weapon 1 , Senior Trip and Golf Punks . ... think of it as American Pie On Valium . Merely labeling National Lampoon 's Van Wilder 'sophomoric ' or 'vulgar ' does n't do justice to the perpetrators ' dedication . While I realize the film is n't aspiring to be anything more than a dumb and/or raucous comedy , there 's good/smart dumb and lame/stupid dumb . This effort clearly falls into the latter category . It 's just more of the same . 	A derivative gross-out comedy that 's short on laughs .
much ado about nothing 2012 MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING is a triumph of charm and wit , going down so easily that we forget how astonishing it is that it actually exists . Everyone acquits him or herself charmingly , and with a deep appreciation for why Shakespeare travels well , and in defiance of those who would dismiss him as dusty . The fact is , he 's writing about us . It 's as simple as that , and Whedon well knows it . Whedon adapts William Shakespeare 's feather-light comedy into a bubbly cocktail party of a movie - and gives his stable of regular actors some of the Bard 's meatiest dialogue on which to chew . It will require no conspiring to make you fall for this one ; Whedon and Shakespeare are a perfect match . As in many of Shakespeare 's comedies , dark moments mark the dramatic action midway through Much Ado About Nothing . But Whedon brings the proceedings back to boisterous life in the last act . Fillion is the most lovable of big lugs ( and possibly the first Shakespearean character ever to don shades ) . If the movie sounds like a Hollywood gazillionaire 's embarrassing vanity project , think again : filmed in lustrous black and white , Whedon 's Much Ado is an elegant and intelligent , hugely entertaining modern-day version of the play . A tad more ado would , come to think of it , have been greatly welcomed . This is merely M'eh Ado . The high-concept enterprise , which uses Shakespeare 's original language , never justifies its existence . This is an intimate and giddy romantic comedy with only a hint of seriousness , one that is as elegant as it is fun . 	Lighthearted to a fault , Much Ado About Nothing 's giddy energy and intimate charm make for an entertaining romantic comedy -- and a Shakespearean adaptation that 's hard to resist .
auto focus In surely the best performance of his career , Kinnear expertly charts how the facade of someone who is little more than facade crumbles without him even knowing it . The movie is well done but the 'ooh ick ' factor is pretty high . Schrader , I think , has found an approach that suits the skewed cultural history of his material . Auto Focus never explains the whys behind Bob Crane 's addiction , but it recounts the disease and its toll on the man in vivid , sometimes shocking and always fascinating terms . ..interesting for the way it reveals what the advent of the videotape in the '70s has done to all of us . Like the Internet in the '90s , it has helped make what 's private public - for better or worse . [ Kinnear ] is perfectly cast as a character that Schrader takes from apple-pie wholesome to cadaverous by degrees . This is not a masterpiece ; Schrader wrote a better film about career disintegration and the pathetic sexual lives of insecure men , and that film was `` Raging Bull '' . But the movie is powerful . The film tries to make a case for Crane as the poster boy for fame 's dark side , but it never quite succeeds . A hilarious and harrowing portrait of addiction and self-annihilation . The one character trait given to Bob Crane in the movie is that he 's likable . Paul Schrader has made a movie that is n't -- everything about it is out of focus . 	Kinnear and Dafoe help make this downward spiral of one man 's life a compelling watch .
good the bad and the weird The Good , the Bad , the Weird is little more than a series of anonymous , elaborate shoot-outs . Like its title , it 's just a goof . Did you really just watch 50 guys on trucks and horses blast one another to bits while chasing one guy on a motorcycle ? You did . And it was awesome . Imagine the sparseness of classic oaters matched with the energy of martial arts movies and you 've got what Kim Jee-won has wrought . Though Kim 's western pastiche may be insubstantial , it 's anything but a drag . It 's masterfully directed , legitimately funny , and legitimately fun , thoroughly enjoyable even at an excessive 129 minutes . Thrill-seekers , rejoice . Here 's the summer blockbuster you 've been waiting for -- no , dreaming of . The Good , the Bad , the Weird is to Hollywood 's puny efforts what the Large Hadron Collider is to a Hula Hoop . Much too long and does n't always seem to know what it 's doing or where it 's going , but for an hour at least it carries a serious bang . Director/co-writer Kim certainly enjoys ransacking genres . We 're holding out for his remake of Gone with the Wind . It 's like every favorite movie you 've ever loved , and like nothing you 've ever seen before . Kim Ji-woon 's Sergio Leone-inspired Korean Western is riotous , stylishly directed and frequently funny but it 's also at least 30 minutes too long and runs out of steam before the end . Wild , crazy and packed with memorable moments , this South Korean homage to the western may not be thought-provoking or particularly deep , but it 's also one of the most genuinely fun and inventive movies to hit the screen in quite some time . 	Whilst never taking itself too seriously , this riotous and rollicking Sergio Leone-inspired Korean Western is serious fun .
the naked gun 33 13 the final insult 1994 While Naked Gun 33 1/3 has its share of solid laughs , it still feels a bit lacking . deeply silly Third time was not a charm for this winning franchise . Wherever you are in the story , there 's always something funny coming at you . Funny enough . On the bright side , OJ 's last film . Some of this is funny , but an awful lot falls flat , and the film ultimately wears out its welcome long before it 's over . Click to read review This time out , they 've apparently hit bottom . Still funny . 	This overly silly third installment attempts to hit the same funny notes as the original , but falls flat overall .
crow What 's scary about The Crow is the story and the style itself : American Gothic , Poe-haunted nightmare , translated to the age of cyberpunk science fiction , revenge movies and outlaw rock 'n ' roll , all set in a hideously decaying , crime-ridden urban hell . The Crow is a visually immersive , emotionally wrought comic adaptation and one of the best gothic tales ever made . Visually , it 's a treat ; characterisation is sharp , particularly the nicely defined villains ; and the action scenes , though soft-pedalled , still pack a satisfying crunch . The Crow allows no room for the viewer to take a breath , as it blazes with breakneck speed from scene to scene . A spectacular-looking new film that sets new standards for visual style . Follows an entirely predictable path , but does so with style and intensity . The Crow , starring the late Brandon Lee , is like one long fright night . Even though it was photographed in color , the edge-of-darkness atmosphere descends on the audience like a shroud . Certainly overwrought , but its images have a surprising durability . Alex Proyas 's pulp revenge fantasy , based on a comic-book saga by James O'Barr , is dark , moody , and seductively overwrought ; it 's an amazingly pure expression of morbid adolescent romanticism . As exploitation pictures go , I 've seen a whole lot worse . 	Filled with style and dark , lurid energy , The Crow is an action-packed visual feast that also has a soul in the performance of the late Brandon Lee .
dish Fun and informative . A comedy with a heart -- a rare thing in the movies these days . A satellite dish sitting in the middle of an Australian sheep farm might not sound like the most compelling subject to base a story around , but there are hidden charms in this graceful film that add up to something quite out of the ordinary . Shows us that when done with restraint , nostalgia can be fine . If you 're old enough to remember the first moon landing , The Dish is guaranteed to leave you with a lump in your throat . A reminder that it took a global village for all the world to see the man on the moon . Strangely enough , for a movie about a satellite dish , it 's still a good date movie . It 's that lovely and moving . Thin mush that it is , Sitch 's movie does know how to capitalize on cosmic awe . The Dish is an entertaining , funny , and strong lesson in collaborative initiative , community spirit , and a rousing sense of humor . What a lovely adventure ! What 's perhaps most refreshing of all is the fact that the film never gets too drippy or sentimental , despite opportunities . 	A feel good movie without an abundance of mush .
air force one Harrison Ford is one of the most likable and convincing of movie stars , and he almost pulls off the impossible in Air Force One . ' I do n't mean he saves the day ; I mean he almost saves the movie . What separates Air Force One from other action/adventure movies is that an audience can not ignore the silly bits . Moments of silliness are more than balanced by Petersen 's extraordinary ability to keep this movie flight-worthy , Ford 's almost-executive presence and an outstanding performance from Oldman . Chock full of witty , honest dialogue , human beings as actors ( as opposed to adenoidal cartoons ) , and a clever script that takes itself just seriously enough to warrant our attention ... The intelligent and clever script has enough humor to break the tension periodically . Unfortunately , as the film winds to a close , claustrophobic tension once again gives way to overblown digital effects and set pieces . Just think of this as `` Die Hard '' in a suit , with an election coming up . Congrats for pulling some new rabbits out of the hat with this formula . Air Force One is a spellbinding film , one that grips the viewer from the very start and does n't let up until 140 minutes later , plot holes or no . Ford and director Wolfgang Petersen ( `` In the Line of Fire '' ) manage to weave some movie magic with one of the most ludicrous plots in recent cinematic history . 	This late-period Harrison Ford actioner is full of palpable , if not entirely seamless , thrills .
the babadook The Babadook descends to the truly horrific when you begin to see it as the literary manifestation of insomniac 's murder fantasy . One of the best horror movies to come along in years . Jennifer Kent 's startling debut is an artful horror-chiller that gets under your skin and into your psyche . The Babadook makes a convincing argument for classy , psychological horror cinema even as it fails to meet its own lofty standard . `` The Babadook , '' a small but inventive and seriously chilling horror story , is a monsterpiece . An elegant little horror film reminiscent of Roman Polanski 's `` apartment trilogy '' ... albeit minus Polanski 's kinky male gaze . The Babadook burrows under your skin , continually prodding you with increasingly disturbing ideas . You do n't just walk away from this movie ; it follows you . So much more interesting and idiosyncratic than most horror films ( whether from Japan or Australia or America ) , The Babadook is original and compelling Jennifer Kent 's debut excels at what you might call grief horror ... the ending finds a rare emotional realism in what could have been a run-of-the-mill creepshow . Finally , a good horror movie with scary thrills , but also ambiguity and psychological subtext 	The Babadook relies on real horror rather than cheap jump scares -- and boasts a heartfelt , genuinely moving story to boot .
dial m for murder Was by far the most visually compelling of studio stereoscopic movies . While it 's true that Hitchcock left most of the play 's dialogue intact and kept the single setting of the play 's apartment , he did quite a bit more to bring the story to life . Milland 's sinister sophistication catches the eye , but Kelly 's subtly shaded suffering is superb . A merely adequate Hitchcock thriller . Dial M for Murder is often dismissed as lesser Hitchcock , yet its intricate plot and sterling performances thrill me every time I watch it . Despite Hitchcock 's own reservations this is definitely worth a look . Interesting to his aficionados and darkly funny and depressing in turns . The fun of Dial M lies in its duel of wits ... The risk with clever thrillers is always that they will focus on pleasing the intellect at the expense of developing more depth . Dial M For Murder is a different kind of animal . Rather than let someone else mess with a play that has a formal perfection , Hitchcock did the adaptation himself , his only such credit while in Hollywood . Dial M is less a filmed play than a highly cinematic investigation of theatricality . 	Dial M for Murder may be slightly off-peak Hitchcock , but by any other standard , it 's a sophisticated , chillingly sinister thriller -- and one that boasts an unforgettable performance from Grace Kelly to boot .
my cousin vinny A very clever comedy The regional stereotypes in Dale Launer 's broad script are n't so laudable , but the on-screen talent merits a retrial : Tomei talks up a storm and Pesci terrorises thinly spread gags into near-shape . [ An ] enjoyable fish-out-of-water comedy . It 's a small , surprisingly gentle affair , prone to fits and starts , but fun . Smart-talking comedy with Joe Pesci in fine form . Tomei , sashaying through the proceedings as kind of a sexy hood ornament , creates a buoyant chemistry with her combative b.f . The pacing is brisk and the energy of the performances is so palpable that even at its silliest and most contrived , the film is enjoyable . With such canny scene-stealers as Gwynne , Smith , Pendleton , McGill and Chaykin filling out the cast , it is very hard for My Cousin Vinny to go wrong , and indeed , for the purpose of pleasant Saturday night entertainment , it does not . Joe Pesci has more energy than charm in the title role , but the supporting cast has some terrific moments , and the comedy supplies a fair number of laughs before running completely out of steam . I do n't want to oversell My Cousin Vinny . It 's hardly brilliant . But it 's easygoing and occasionally quite funny and ultimately satisfying . 	The deft comic interplay between Joe Pesci and Marisa Tomei helps to elevate My Cousin Vinny 's predictable script , and the result is a sharp , hilarious courtroom comedy .
set it off Influenced by Thelma & Louise and Waiting to Exhale , this well-crafted Girls N the Hood has social conscience and soul ; Queen Latifah gives a career-making performance that should made her a big Hollywood star A tense , original caper film full of excellent performances , particularly by Queen Latifah Fierce and emotionally resonant action-drama , anchored by four smart performances . One of the rare movies sporting great action sequences and a ring of truth . Overlong , overdone and overwrought , the narratively challenged Set It Off gets off on exploitation shock and social-conscience schlock in equal measure . Despite Gray 's galvanic ability with action sequences , there are very few surprises to be found in Set It Off 	It may not boast an original plot , but Set It Off is a satisfying , socially conscious heist film thanks largely to fine performances from its leads .
1112951-time machine A charmingly old-fashioned adventure yarn , ... but spruced up with state-of-the-art special effects ... an affectionately realized updating of the old tale . There are n't enough expensive special effects in the world to make up for a good story . They had one with Machine , but chose to screw with it . The worst news is n't that this Time Machine is lacking in humanity . It 's that screenwriter John Logan has been given the job of writing the next Star Trek movie , Nemesis . That is bad news for the Enterprise gang . A great idea , good send off with bold intentions , that does n't quite mature ; that said , you probably wo n't be bored . Personally , I 'd like to time travel back myself and get those 95 minutes returned . I would n't waste them on this movie . Not exactly H.G . Wells , but sturdy and effective . The question hanging over The Time Machine is not , as the main character suggests , 'what if ? ' but rather , 'How can you charge money for this ? ' Midway through the movie , just when it seems that it might amount to something interesting , we 're suddenly transported to the set of a very bad remake of Planet Of The Apes . Diehard fans of the original film may be angry that anyone would dare mess with their movie , but I 'm here to report that I enjoyed this version . Overall , the special effects are impressive , especially the time machine itself ... 	This Machine has all the razzle-dazzles of modern special effects , but the movie takes a turn for the worst when it switches from a story about lost love to a confusing action-thriller .
1189217-angels and demons Eh..It 's good . When Angels & Demons goes into action overdrive it is fun . The locations are terrific , Hanks impressive , the clues absorbing and it is all beautifully shot . Though the film is a little long and extremely predictable , it is slightly better than The Da Vinci Code and packs some great intensity . Tension ? Believability ? Characters we care about ? Vanished , like so many well-intentioned prayers at an Easter Sunday mass . ... Moves quickly but never involves the audience . Director Ron Howard and his writers deserve a hefty penance for this abomination . It 's does n't quite pay off , but Angels & Demons does a much better job of balancing the blasphemy and blood , heresy and heroics that were Brown 's ticket to eternal wealth if not eternal life . This overwrought chase/final-countdown movie is as banal as the genre comes . It 's not a well-made action film ; it 's just expensively made . Taking a hint from past mistakes , Ron Howard and Tom Hanks return to the fanciful historical styling 's of Dan Brown to create a much more entertaining and thrilling mystery , as science and religion , martyrs and heretics clash in Angels and Demons . The Da Vinci Code , while not a great movie by a stretch , was better and actually offered some interesting characters . 	Angels and Demons is a fast-paced thrill ride , and an improvement on the last Dan Brown adaptation , but the storyline too often wavers between implausible and ridiculous , and does not translate effectively to the big screen .
secretariat Screenwriter Mike Rich and director Randall Wallace somehow whip this fruit salad of tragedy and triumph and predictability and profound corniness into something wonderful and amazing and the best kind of Hollywood feel-good . For those looking to , or through , Secretariat for a deeper , more sinister meaning , all I can say is , there are worse places to look for God than in the nostril of a great horse . The horse 's story entertains but it would have been nice to have more of the owner 's personal life explored Let down by a shallow , bland treatment and characters that feign depth and go nowhere . In this category , it is still 'Seabiscuit ' by a mile . Secretariat is a traditional , by-the-numbers feel-good movie that 's likely to leave you cheering in the end anyway , even though you know what 's coming . As satisfying as it is stimulating , 'Secretariat ' will make you stand up and cheer . Secretariat all but ignores the horse it ? s named after in favor of telling the tedious , mostly irrelevant story of his owner . Wallace is a director of moments , not of cohesive wholes . His movie is a parade of confrontations punctuated by a thrilling race . Until the Sports Illustrated subscription runs out at the Walt Disney Studios offices , I expect audiences will continue to be privy to cookie-cutter yarns centered around notable achievements in the sports world . The film seeks to honor the memory of the great racehorse , and it largely succeeds . 	Rousing , heartwarming , and squarely traditional , Secretariat offers exactly what you 'd expect from an inspirational Disney drama -- no more , and no less .
prometheus 2012 In the end , the Prometheus plot is slightly bonkers , but forgivably so , because the characters are so well drawn . And there are enough slime bursts to make Ghostbusters look timid . The mishmash of grotesque body-horror and chin-stroking existentialism does not always make for the most coherent movie , but it is at least an entertaining one and certainly no black mark on the franchise . One aspect of the film that ca n't be denied are its visual accomplishments . There is no tension . Nothing to get you chewing your nails . You know going in very few characters are coming out . The only suspense is wondering if there will be a part two . Prometheus is n't a classic , unlike Alien and Blade Runner , but there are enough quality ingredients to make me hope Scott gets the money to make the sequel . ( The ) parent/child and creator/creation themes ( are ) pretty deep for a film this pretty . What else did you expect from Ridley Scott ? Gorgeous , somewhat baffling , and not altogether unpleasant . God ( or Alien ) knows this movie is derivative . But as someone else once said , originality is n't everything . a grand space journey along the lines of 2001 : A Space Odyssey with teeth and less psychedelic drugs . It is not quite what you 'll expect , and it 's a better film for it . After delivering a brilliant first half , its ambition seems to exceed its execution , but despite becoming muddled , it remains a visually stunning and wild cinematic ride . 	Ridley Scott 's ambitious quasi-prequel to Alien may not answer all of its big questions , but it 's redeemed by its haunting visual grandeur and compelling performances -- particularly Michael Fassbender as a fastidious android .
sydney white A lot of the acting is in the broad Disney Channel style . A decent vehicle for Bynes . Tween star hits college ; drinking , hazing ensue . Whoever thought to merge `` Snow White '' with `` Revenge of the Nerds '' had a clever idea there . And you can watch it unfold in `` Sydney White . '' He [ Joe Nussbaum ] pretty much directs by the numbers . This is one of those `` eh '' flicks , entirely mediocre . Sydney White is n't incompetently made . It 's not even particularly offensive . It 's just very , very uninspired and almost instantly forgettable . Audiences will identify more with Sydney White 's misfit cast than its bland leading lady . Despite a predictable and formulaic storyline , there are enough genuine laugh-inducing moments ... that Sydney White is rarely boring if not exactly fresh or original . Strictly for teenage girls , Sydney White is not totally without charms , but is too breathless , too cheesy and far too dorky to leave a favourable impact . 	Amanda Bynes is charming , but Sydney White is a poorly adapted take on Snow White , relying on tired ethnic stereotypes laughs .
waynes world A classic comedy ! Proves Mike Myers was funny once . Confronts the cultural emptiness of late 20th-century life head-on , revealing a profound hollowness in the heart of modern man ( and babe ) . Very funny SNL spinoff . Do n't miss the Bohemian Rhapsody scene Filme engraado e jovial , faz crticas sociais em piadas hilrias que funcionam muito bem . Carvey especialmente engraado , mas Myers tambm se destaca em vrias cenas . This one was mildly clever and amusing . The sequel was utter crap . Tia Carerre is immaculate . Like the Bill & Ted movies , this one works on its intended level and then sneaks in excursions to some other levels , too . Incredibly lowbrow , but many teens will love it . With Myers feeling his oats as a comedy star , Wayne 's World turned out to be an irresistibly silly ( and masterfully marketed ) option for audiences . [ Blu-ray ] The film tends to be funny when confining itself to short sketches or dopey television-based humor , flat when pretending to be anything more . A bit dated these days , but still worth a schwing . 	An oddball comedy that revels in its silliness and memorable catch phrases , Wayne 's World is also fondly regarded because of its endearing characters .
imaginary heroes While not a perfect film , the performances alone make Imaginary Heroes stand out . Tired dysfunctional family drama that speaks to grief and denial in unwieldy doses . With an eager urgency full of risk , [ director ] Harris piles on emotional layers and keeps winking back-stories at us . ... not only has one too many twists , it probably has 2 or 3 too many . Imaginary Heroes is a queer-eyed valentine to Sigourney Weaver . [ Harris ] knows how to create complex , believable characters and how to inspire his talented actors . Imaginary Heroes mines the suburban tragedy of Ordinary People , The Ice Storm and American Beauty , but with only a quarter of the insight . no comedy ; it studies a dysfunctional family living what appears to be a normal life . Hirsch , Weaver and Daniels portray a realism that makes the whole thing worthwhile . What remains when the movie is over is the memory of Sandy and Tim talking , and of a mother who loves her son , understands him , and understands herself in a wry but realistic way . Has a third act that consists almost entirely of skeletons tumbling out of the closet , but Weaver 's and Hirsch 's flawless performances elevate the film above and beyond the ranks of 'Ordinary People ' pastiches , and in the end it stands on its own merits . 	Imaginary Heroes is a muddled , melodramatic and unconvincing drama .
barnyard Lesbian Cows ! ! ! Lesbian COWS ! ! ! ! Carnivorous LESBIAN COWS ! ! ! ! Aarg ! This coming-of-age story can seem like a series of `` Far Side '' panels expanded into a feature , but it imparts its lessons with a wealth of detail and too many gags to catch in one viewing . Colorful and energetically silly , a little scary and shot through with reassuring and worthy life lessons , it 's an untaxing children 's movie formula all the way . [ W ] hy do the male cows have udders ? .. This is n't supposed to be the animated version of TransAmerica . Barnyard moves with a frenetic energy , especially in the numerous barn dance and chase scenes , that will probably keep family audiences moderately entertained . But it does n't stand up to this summer 's relative bonanza of animated family films . Moo . A Lion King clone that 's tailored to the Fisher-Price crowd . All of the jokes are obvious , some are funny and none are what you would call inspired . Criminal acts and scenes of brutal violence spoil the effect of `` Barnyard '' as an animated movie for tots . The barnyard is the Middle East ; the hens represent the oil wealth ; and the humans are the ineffectual United Nations ! Or ... perhaps it 's all just a mediocre cartoon about talking barnyard animals . Whichever . ... has energy to spare but a flimsy and only mildly amusing script that does n't allow it to stand out from the current glut of kid-friendly CGI competitors . 	Unimaginative and unfunny , this tale of barnyard mischief borders on 'udder ' creepiness and adds little to this summer 's repertoire of animated films .
how to eat fried worms Throughout this fifth-grade Fear Factor , there are scattered lessons on the ills of bullying , the benefit of being true to yourself , the joy of true friendship . But really , what boy is going to remember a moral when there 's an exploding worm ? Yes , it 's a gross-out comedy , but safe for younger viewers . not particularly original or effective If your stomach does n't churn a bit after hearing the title of the children 's movie How to Eat Fried Worms , the picture itself may finish the job . [ This ] honest-to-God kid 's movie -- and a good one , no less ... serves up a sweet-natured and reasonably authentic platter of kid culture . This is a delightfully snips and snails and puppy-dog tails-style movie , based on the book that has happily grossed out kids since 1973 . What we have here is a 90-minute worm-eating contest , a spectacle that could be of interest only to robins , small-mouth bass and eight-to-11-year-old boys . Girls , do n't bother . Parents and guardians , if you have to go , plan to take a nap . The lessons about bullying and standing up for yourself are n't forced too strongly , giving How to Eat Fried Worms the same appeal as the best Little Rascals shorts . In too many kid-oriented films , the child actors mouth off like small , sassy adults -- Here , the kids , refreshingly , act like kids . Anarchic but charmingly authentic . 	This Fear Factor for kids is good-natured and tasty enough .
mimzy Unlike E.T. , Mimzy is n't wrinkly or strange or even very mobile , nothing that might frighten the All-American youngsters who discover her on a beach near Seattle . Occasionally arresting ideas and a non-condescending attitude to its pre-teen protagonists give this more character than many effects-driven family fantasies , even if it 's ultimately too wonky in construction to sweep us along convincingly . The ultimate message of Mimzy seems to be : Help save the world , kids , but do it while enjoying the movie 's preferred brand of lemon-lime soda . The Last Mimzy , it should be said , is exceedingly mild whimsy . It also has a story that no doubt will be too diffuse for small children -- or the big adults who accompany them . Mimzy has action that makes it a bit too intense for small children but too tedious for grownups . So not only is The Last Mimzy saving the environment but also making a statement on government intrusion into private lives . It 's clear director Robert Shaye has an agenda , and it tends to step on the rest of his movie . Quirky sci-fi adventure best for fantasy lovers . The film wisely does not try to wow the CGI-savvy audience with its special effects , keeping them low-key enough to feel enticingly possible . Beautifully crafted , ardently unsentimental story . Do n't be afraid of the child stars -- they 're amazingly un-Fanning . The movie 's poor focus and scattershot approach , while not without its charms , represents the kind of product that may divert children but will likely puzzle adults with its inconsistency . 	The Last Mimzy makes efforts to be a fun children 's movie , but unsuccessfully juggles too many genres and subplots -- eventually settling as an unfocused , slightly dull affair .
spring 2015 A landmark of irresistible weirdness , `` Spring '' brings horror out of its long winter hibernation . This is a romantic horror with sci-fi inflections and it 's a stunning example of the power of cinema . splices the DNA of Before Sunrise ( 1995 ) and Possession ( 1981 ) to engender a monster movie at the shoreline of biology and romance . This oddball film 's mashup innovations often come at the price of storytelling discipline and , to some extent , common sense . Every so often , a film comes along that takes so weird a turn that it completely discombobulates the viewer . Spring is such a film . While not perfect , low-budget Spring takes welcome risks with the creature-feature genre . A bit like a cross between Before Sunrise and An American Werewolf in London but nowhere near as good as either . It 's rare indeed to find a modern horror film more interested in characters than plot or body count , and the naturalistic storytelling pays dividends . If Richard Linklater attempted a remake of Val Lewton 's Cat People , the end result might resemble Spring . It 's a film whose individual parts are perhaps more impressive than the whole , with innovative drone-cam shots , some special effects work which recalls John Carpenter 's The Thing and two very committed and empathetic lead performances . 	Rich in atmosphere and intelligence , Spring is a singular horror film with a sneaky , lingering impact .
another happy day Ellen Barkin - playing the estranged mother of the groom - does a big heap of acting as one of the more histrionic members of the clan . A tiresome and irritating melodrama about an extended family gathering for a wedding and showing their neurotic sides without any restraint . Barkin looks great and makes a noble effort trying to keep her middle-aged mom character grounded , but Levinson unloads too many hysterical outbursts and crying fits to keep Lynn from dissolving into parody . A collection of Chekhovian characters sitting on a powder keg in a match factory . Superb writing , a quickly moving plot and outstanding lead performances make this one a winner . Altmanesque in its sprawl and sympathetic attitude toward even its most flawed characters , Happy Day marks a mostly promising debut for director-writer Sam Levinson . A movie that will make you laugh and cry in equal proportions and it signals the arrival of another terrific second generation filmmaker . Hoping to distract us from the zero ideas found in his film , Levinson demands that his cast act loudly and unbearably ... Laugh-laced dark drama of family angst overcomes the hurdle of its wedding-weekend setting . Both anguished and histrionic and in its strongest moments very , very good . But it is also overpopulated , strident and constitutionally unable to step back and scrutinize itself . 	Another Happy Day features outstanding performances ( Ellen Barkin 's especially ) but the characters are too unpleasant to endure .
rashomon a game-shifter that challenges all we think we know about truth Its virtues are still plentiful : Kurosawa 's visual style at its most muscular , rhythmically nuanced editing , and excellent performances . With fast tracking shots , b & w chiaroscuro camerawork and a pessimistic intimation that what exactly was done is not essential , the result hit the bull's-eye with foreign filmgoers and critics . despite the many imitators , no one has quite duplicated the power and gnawing unease of this challenging film Akira Kurosawa 's four-way account of a man 's murder has become so associated with its central device % u2014 not to mention its myriad offshoots % u2014 that it requires an effort to see it only for itself . `` Rashomon '' may be a prosecutor 's nightmare , but it 's a film lover 's dream . A biting commentary on deceit , gender roles , and due process ( not to mention Japanese culture ) . The mixture of bravura camera work , muscular direction and inventive storytelling remains unmissable . Rashomon is a film about the lies people tell to protect their self-image . Much of the power of the picture -- and it unquestionably has hypnotic power -- derives from the brilliance with which the camera of director Akira Kurosawa has been used . 	One of legendary director Akira Kurosawa 's most acclaimed films , Rashomon features an innovative narrative structure , brilliant acting , and a thoughtful exploration of reality versus perception .
georgia rule The tone is so inconsistent that the only effect it has is to confuse the audience . Georgia Rule stars Jane Fonda in the story of what her life would be like if Lindsay Lohan were her granddaughter . Here 's a hint : It would suck . The brassy performances and pure , at-odds variance of Georgia Rule with much of Hollywood studio product make it a welcome-enough May visitor . Careless and predictable , Georgia Rule offers up the abuse victim 's `` sexy '' acting out as alternately beguiling and blameworthy . A family drama that flies all over the place and does not do justice to the serious ethical issues it raises . All three ( stars ) are compelling and vibrant , which will make many viewers wish the actresses had a stronger script to work with and a more confident director to guide them . Quite a bit smarter than some of director Garry Marshall 's other weepies ... but his big , happy , clumsy style ultimately is n't suited for finely tuned melodrama . It 's an honest hard look at a very messy family , with a fantastic cast . The movie threatens to lose its way -- and its audience -- but ends up right where it should by the last scene . A berserk combination of tasteless comedy and even more tasteless melodrama . A tedious yawn with only a few bright spots . 	Comedic and dramatic in all the wrong places , Georgia Rule is a confused dramedy that wastes the talents of its fine cast .
1037864-father of the bride This is a movie with heart , and there are little moments in it when Martin is deeply moved by the fact that this perfect creature he brought into the world is now going to start a family of her own . A charming , if pointless remake of the Spencer Tracy classic . Will Steve Martin EVER be funny in a movie again ? A solid , if only fitfully imaginitive , remake of the Spencer Tracy original . Is the wedding cake outrageously expensive ? Get over it , George . Steve Martin 's sweet-natured wedding weepy . Some sequences and dialogue are lifted directly from the original , but in the wider context , this merely serves to underline the remake 's comparative lack of tenderness and subtlety . ... it 's not difficult to see why the film has endured since it 's release or why a sequel was commissioned just a few years later . See Spencer Tracy in the original instead . Too cute not to enjoy on some level , although Short manages to walk away with the film . 	While it does n't quite hit the heights of the original , this remake of the 1950 classic is pleasantly enjoyable , thanks in large part to winning performances from Steve Martin and Martin Short .
enough said 2013 It may well have been titled Too Much Said , as two divorced women and a bickering married one are thrown into a relationship train wreck - two of them participants , the third a snappy onlooker The late actor 's final screen appearance is proof of his versatility in front of the camera . Consistently entertaining and funny ( without ever being hysterically so ) -- and , yes , I 'd recommend it as a very nice way to spend 90 minutes at the movies . As wonderful as Gandolfini is here , Louis-Dreyfus is a revelation as the motherly yet self-denying Eva . A wonderful , original film , and it 's never a distraction for one second that the two participants are played by people as iconic as Tony Soprano and Elaine Benes . How it all plays out , even without the unexpected layer of wistful Gandolfini remembrance , is sad and funny at the same time . A typically astute and funny reading of the foibles of human relationships , spiced up with a forgivably contrived comedic plot twist . [ Louis-Dreyfus ] has wonderful chemistry with Gandolfini , whose Albert is warmly sympathetic , ruefully amusing , and ultimately hurt ... A wry and moving look at a time in life that tends to get short shrift in U.S. cinema . A winning comic romance with a wonderful regular guy performance by the late James Gandolfini . 	Wryly charming , impeccably acted , and ultimately quite bittersweet , Enough Said is a grown-up movie in the best possible way .
what lies beneath Entertains in a way we are used to being entertained . Another movie that fails so miserably . The only thing the film did well , was provide for a lot of schlock . Some of the cuts , shots , and setups are reminiscent of [ Hitchcock 's ] style . Zemeckis keeps things taut for edge-of-your-seat excitement until all is dead and done . Pfeiffer almost single-handedly lifts the picture above mediocrity . Robert Zemeckis is usually such a reliable filmmaker that you really have to wonder how he managed to criminally misuse the marquee dream team of Harrison Ford and Michelle Pfeiffer . The only flaw in What Lies Beneath is that the artists involved are clearly swinging for the fences . The best they can manage here is a ground rule double . This is what happens when people try to be clever . It 's openly schlocky . 	Robert Zemeckis is unable to salvage an uncompelling and unoriginal film .
the perks of being a wallflower `` The Perks of Being a Wallflower , '' may not do anything groundbreaking , but it tells a familiar story in small , thoughtful ways . It 's nostalgia with an emphasis on nostos , pain . Filmmaker Chbosky constructs a tight , confined microcosm for them where the outside world never intrudes . One of the most honest and assured teen dramas in recent memory . It 's a movie that captures what your teenage years are like when you 're in them , and what your teenage years are like when you look back at them . It 's funny without resorting to broad slapstick , and it 's poignant without settling for cheap sentimentality . Well-soaked in the familiar brine of teen sensitivity . Enjoyable and emotionally engaging coming-of-age teen drama with a superb soundtrack , a sensitive , sharply written script and a trio of terrific performances from Lerman , Miller and Watson . High school can be hell , but Stephen Chbosky 's engaging new film argues that anyone can get by with a little help from their friends . Thanks to [ Chbosky 's ] stars , the film - like the book - is a smartly observed study of a troubled teen 's first year in high school . 	The Perks of Being a Wallflower is a heartfelt and sincere adaptation that 's bolstered by strong lead performances .
the tillman story Merely puts Tillman on a different kind of pedestal and celebrates him as a different sort of idol than the military and media had done in the past . There 's a lot of blame to go around , certainly , but in the end we 're left with a lot of conjecture about what people `` must have '' known , and too-quick pans over official documents . The Tillman Story mixes talking heads and archival footage into a detective story of escalatingly scandalous proportions . It reaches beyond the facts of Tillman 's story to arrive at key , universal truths about the ways our heroes are made and defined . The tragic details of a football hero 's death and the ugly efforts of deceitful career generals to hide the truth This is no documentary ; it is propaganda , making it basically worthless when it comes to finding out what happened and why , and that 's a shame . It 's no mistake that the film 's ( anti- ) resolving image is a statue of Tillman , frozen in time as a heroic but Sphynx-like riddle . [ Blu-ray ] The Tillman Story stands as a truthful and emotional eulogy to a fallen solider and one that would never have been told without Dannie Tillman 's determination . Bar-Lev 's portrait of the outspoken Tillman family demonstrates another , more realistic side of American honor and integrity - one that values truth over what Mary Tillman derides as a `` tidy and mythic '' story . It 's a sobering look at how governments operate in wartime , putting a shiny spin on even the grimmest of tragedies . 	Passionate , angry , and insightful , The Tillman Story offers a revealing portrait of its subject 's inspiring life and untimely death .
must love dogs The latest installment in film 's ongoing habit of hooking itself up , Iditarod-like , to man 's best friend for a little uplift in the adorability department . The film gets more tepid as it goes along and ultimately just drifts off . I wish [ Lane and Cusack ] had a better script to work with in this cyber-dating comedy ... A romantic comedy so generic that its label AND what 's inside is nothing but a black-and-white checklist of the lamest rom-com clichs ever invented . Like the computer-ad dates on screen , this promises much more than it delivers . A romantic comedy is only as irresistible as are its temporarily star-crossed lovers . By this barometer , the enjoyably breezy Must Love Dogs boasts quite a pedigree . ... the first 75 minutes are sophomoric , foolish , unrealistic , unfunny , and contrived , if not puerile , ignorant , and ill-informed . ... homosexual characters in romantic comedies serve the same role that Eunuchs did in the ancient Middle East : nonsexual good listeners who exist to assist hapless rich women . Be warned . When the makers of Must Love Dogs want you to like somebody , they slam your hand in a drawer until you say uncle . Too pat when it needs to be hairy , Must Love Dogs fails to find the undercurrents of complex emotion beneath its pretty patter surface . 	Despite good work from its likable leads , the romantic comedy Must Love Dogs is too predictable .
aileen life and death of a serial killer [ T ] his movie literally gave me the chills . As much about the culture that produces and fears , consumes and condemns , an Aileen Wuornos as it is about Aileen Wuornos . Provides an opportunity to study one of history 's supposed anomalies : a female serial killer . Nick Broomfield 's documentary , which chronicles the events that led up to the execution of Aileen Wuornos , is an absorbing film , partly because its subject exudes a scary charisma . It does ... make a powerful argument against capital punishment , no matter which side of the debate you happen to take . As gripping and suspenseful as anything Hollywood is capable of turning out . The director ... makes a compelling argument that Wuornos never got a fair deal from the legal system and that she should have been spared death because of insanity . It makes for a tabloid account , albeit a deliciously droll sidebar to The Selling Of A Serial Killer . Broomfield 's voiceover commentary sounds like a bad Robin Leach impression at times , but his fascinating interviews with the real Wuornos elicit sympathy as well as a strong case of the heebie-jeebies . She was guilty , no doubt , but as this immensely moving film makes clear , Aileen Wuornos was also heartbreakingly human . 	This chilling , unsettling documentary provides an eye-opening look at both Wuornos and the American justice system .
when we were kings With the odds seemingly stacked against him , and surrounded by press , performers , crooks , and charlatans of every stripe , Ali triumphed , and he did so by staying true to his vision and trusting in his own talents . A film as deserving of respect as its subjects . To think of this marvelous film as merely a boxing documentary is to miss a lot . Gast never makes a mistake by turning the camera on Ali-he comes through like a champ A good example of able filmmakers staying out of the way of a very interesting subject . By the time the fighters enter that ring , the excitement factor is almost uncontrollable . Powerful . Provocative . A `` must see . '' Beyond creating an exceptional documentary , Gast reminds us of the majesty of Muhammad Ali , a man who was , and is , a hero for the ages . Ali did n't fumble often , and neither do Gast and Hackford . This is a love-match of filmmakers and subject . Together , they go the distance . Wonderful sports documentary covering the 1974 heavyweight championship fight in Zaire . 	An engrossing documentary that 's as much about at time and a place as it is about a fight .
sexy beast Discourages thinking ... No one can make a mean bunny with a gun on horseback look deep , cool , or heavy . No one . Nervy , cheeky and totally absorbing crime noir in which the humans are far more hair-raising than the heist . It brought back some of the excitement I felt nearly a decade ago watching Quentin Tarantino 's Reservoir Dogs . Sexy Beast is Kingsley 's film : He completely possesses his character 's inner life and freely displays it for us . Glazer directs from Louis Mellis and David Scinto 's script like a man who knows the outer limits of a bad dream . When it 's over , you 'll thank your lucky stars that you do n't know anyone as thoroughly demented as Don Logan . When you get the chance , give this one a look . Aside from [ Glazer 's ] visual flair and gallows humor , he 's still subtracted much more than he 's added . Is n't nearly as interesting as it thinks it is . 	Sexy Beast rises above other movies in the British gangster genre due to its performances -- particularly an electrifying one by Ben Kingsley -- and the script 's attention to character development .
grbavica Mirjana Karanovic and Luna Mijovic give powerful performances as [ director ] Zbanic imbues a simple story with a powerful commentary on the Bosnian war 's devastating impact on the innocent . It 's a lesson the world has yet to learn . Jasmila Zbanic 's writing and directing debut takes a personal look at a citizenry reeling in the aftermath of war . [ Director Jasmila ] Zbanic is such an acute observer of women 's lives in their intimate details , and constructs such fine scenes , that I think this might be the best film to emerge from the aftermath of the Balkan conflict . Grbavica : The Land of My Dreams is a stilted but touching articulation of a Sarajevo suburb 's collective grief years after the Bosnian War . The portrayal of a wounded society is compelling , and the film ends on a very modestly hopeful note , appropriate for a country where the 'dreams ' have been mostly painful . While Grbavica concerns a legacy of hatred , it 's also optimistic about Bosnia 's physical and emotional reconstruction . If the film 's final image does n't move you , you 'd better check your pulse . A young Bosnian woman learns that her dad is not the heroshe thought he was in a dramatic postwar family drama in Sarajevo , Bosnia . ... a little powerhouse of a movie whose slow gentle build reaches quite a stunning conclusion . The admirable feminist agenda occasionally trips up the narrative , but the film 's performances keep it on track . Grbavica increases in power as it progresses . It 's a movie about the ways in which people yearn for healing and about the many obstacles that work to prevent it . 	An emotionally blunt and gripping drama , Grbavica deftly explores the emotional toll that all wars take upon those who survive them .
little miss sunshine Ride along to dysfunction in quirky indie comedy . A comedy with something on its mind , Little Miss Sunshine reaffirms that a movie can be smart and funny . It 's one of the year 's best . full review in Greek Shrewdly balancing the ironies of the morbid inclinations of the film 's Hoover clan and an underlying tenderness that steers away from obvious sentimentality , Michael Arndt 's script shines with the support of the superb cast . Little Miss Sunshine proves that family is a heck of a lot like the film 's VW bus : It may be clunky , it may not always run right , but everyone will be OK so long as we all get together and push . While the screenplay is impressive and deserving of its recognition , it is Alan Arkin 's performance-of-a-lifetime that separates this from other well-written small movies . Screenwriter Michael Arndt , his dialogue getting the necessary backing by the excellent ensemble cast , manages to adroitly mix up the expected comic shtick with moments of great clarity and insight . Little Miss Sunshine is a dysfunctional-family comedy with a crucial difference -- the function progresses , hilariously , from dys to full and loving . ... the perfect cast . Royal Tenenbaums meets Malcolm in the Middle . Oh , and let 's not forget Weekend at Bernie 's . 	Little Miss Sunshine succeeds thanks to a strong ensemble cast that includes Greg Kinnear , Steve Carell , Toni Collette , Alan Arkin , and Abigail Breslin , as well as a delightfully funny script .
wadjda 2013 It 's a stunningly assured debut , a slyly subversive delight , and one of my favorite movies of the year so far . What gives the film such sparkle is how deeply it immerses us in the life of a remarkable little girl . Al-Mansour carefully dodges easy uplift , but her message of hope to future generations of Saudi women is clear . This delightful debut feature by a Saudi woman named Haifaa Al-Mansour uses a bicycle as a metaphor for freedom within a social circumference . Wadjda is a winning and wonderfully moving tale of an endearing 10-year-old girl , living in a suburb of Riyadh , making her voice heard in a patriarchal society that seeks to silence her . In Saudi filmmaker Haifaa al-Mansour 's winsome wonder Wadjda , a young girl 's aspirations provide an intimate glimpse into the possibilities and limitations of a cloaked culture . An unqualified delight , a sharp , insightful comedy that subversively explores women 's place in Islamic society . The film disguises its liberal editorial message with a superbly veiled screenplay ; we 're just looking ... but of course , we 're also seeing , a much more invasive activity A sweet little film about the human spirit , about want and energy and determination against unfair odds . Simple but charming . 	Transgressive in the best possible way , Wadjda presents a startlingly assured new voice from a corner of the globe where cinema has been all but silenced .
the spectacular now ... a remarkably precise portrait of a certain sort of high schooler . The Spectacular Now reminds us that even the most familiar set ups and stories can feel refreshing and energized by superb execution . The key to The Spectacular Now 's success is in its insight , empathy , and fantastic performances . The blossoming-love emotions ... are n't all that different from the ones you might encounter in a Nicholas Sparks movie , yet the intimacy between Sutter and Aimee feels real . This adaptation of Tim Tharp 's novel , directed with delicate restraint by James Ponsoldt , sneaks up on you . It makes you laugh , then it breaks your heart . Finally , a worthy teen movie The film 's utter believability on all fronts is its greatest asset . Its straight-forward execution allows for lovely emotional complications . Given the film 's early promise , it 's unfortunate how it turns into a largely reductive Freudian character piece in which the main character has to come to terms with his old man . Strikes a bittersweet note of unaffected authenticity ... 	The Spectacular Now is an adroit , sensitive film that avoids typical coming-of-age story trappings .
valkyrie When it hooks into the filmgoer , the mix of classic thriller tones and Singer 's invigorating compositional rhythms brings Valkyrie to an impressive boil . Surely there is some middle ground between a history lesson and mindless action-adventure . The people who made Valkyrie not only did n't find that ground ; they were n't even looking for it . I was never bored , and the period detail is lovingly observed ; but there is a sense of an opportunity missed . The subject demands to be made as a documentary or in a form more imaginative than a linear narrative . As old-fashioned historical escapism goes , this is solid , compelling stuff . When he is at the top of his game , as he is here , Cruise 's charisma is blinding . Singer marshals his camera and soundtrack well as his tense , behind-the-scenes chess game plays out ... It does feel more like a throwback to a time when studio films were n't ruthlessly divvied up as prestige pictures or blockbusters . Mr. Cruise 's performance turns out to be brisk and reasonably plausible , though unexceptional , while the production as a whole succeeds as an elaborate procedural , impressively staged in historical locations . Talk about an impossible mission : Tom Cruise plays a German WWII Colonel with plans to assassinate Hitler in this distractingly anachronistic fact-based tale from Bryan Singer . 	Given the subject matter , Valkyrie could have been an outstanding historical thriller , but settles for being a mildly entertaining , but disposable yarn .
in the bedroom Skip the voting and hand [ Spacek ] the Oscar now . truthful in every detail As top-drawer as the acting is , I simply ca n't buy the laboriously plotted revenge ending , which seems to have crawled out of Perry Mason 's attic . Few things are more sorrowful than a couple in a house of mourning with nothing but a wall of silence between them . Sissy Spacek and Tom Wilkinson turn in the best performances of the year so far as parents whose lives unravel when their only child dies . As good as the performances are , much of the movie flounders . The film confronts such profound , unpleasant human realities as jealousy , anguish and vengeance with a rare , cold-eyed frankness and remarkable craft . It 's one of the most impressive and intoxicating independent films to arrive on the big screen in a long time . We sense from its opening minutes that we are in the hands of accomplished storytellers . Extraordinarily satisfying directorial debut . 	Expertly crafted and performed , In the Bedroom is a quietly wrenching portrayal of grief .
x files 2 Low in budget , inspiration and excitement , the film feels less like a bigger , better , widescreen reworking of the old goblins-and-G-men show than a forgotten script agonizingly stretched to feature length . Was this stuff always this bad ? Or is this simply the fabled 'worst episode ever ? ' A sloppy , second-rate entry in the catalog of standalone X-Files adventures . While Duchovny , Anderson & Connolly deliver riveting performances here , the story fails to provide them with material to match their talents . By the time Carter and co-writer Frank Spotnitz throw in cartoon Russian villains and a risible plot point involving same-sex marriage , it 's hard to figure where they , or their movie , is coming from . Takes the bold and very smart step of eschewing the CGI excesses of the last X-FILES movie , and of all the other fantasy/sci-fi/adventure flicks of summer . Though the mood of The X Files : I Want to Believe remains consistently funereal , the storytelling is all over the place . Carter does n't try to meet or exceed fans ' expectations so much as create an intimately scaled dramatic universe for his fiercely beloved characters , Dana Scully and Fox Mulder , to inhabit , circa 2008 . Carter has with The X-Files : I Want to Believe created a mediocre mystery that relies too frequently on coincidence and screenwriting convenience to elicit genuine interest , much less `` belief '' in its twists and turns . [ The big plot twist is ] so tawdry and ludicrous that , were the film 's tone anything but Carter 's usual dark and downbeat style , this movie would be the new I Know Who Killed Me . 	The chemistry between leads David Duchovny and Gillian Anderson do live up to The X-Files ' televised legacy , but the roving plot and droning routines make it hard to identify just what we 're meant to believe in .
phone booth Absurdly set in some pre-cell-phone , post-Amadou Diallo alternate universe and generously stocked with logical inconsistencies , Phone Booth is best appreciated as hilarious pulp metaphor . I 'd love to love this film . But Cohen 's script is just so full of holes , it 's impossible . Colin Farrell 's best performance to date ! A tight , suspenseful , compelling movie that may very well revolutionize the action film genre . It 's cinematic flash , tarted up with gritty gray-blue lighting and gimmicky photography . The situation requires something more believably frightening than `` a madman '' Schumacher does a fantastic job of making something smart out of something that could have been extremely simple . It has undertones of serious commentary on American violence , thanks to the screenplay by Larry Cohen . The movie is Farrell 's to win or lose , since he 's onscreen most of the time , and he shows energy and intensity . Like most Schumacher movies , Phone Booth rings loudly but is disconnected from the real world . 	Quick pacing and Farrell 's performance help make Phone Booth a tense nail-biter .
1011813-lady vanishes Sheer stylish entertainment and a joy from start to finish . A pleasure . Classy , intriguing and highly entertaining . It remains the most complex and enlivening of Hitchcock 's earliest films . An early triumph for Hitchcock , rife with tension and a supremely English sense of humor . Hitchock combines thrills and fun in this wonderful offbeat spy yarn . A winner . Mais interessado em explorar a inabalvel fleuma britnica como fonte de humor do que em realmente criar um suspense intrigante , este um dos ltimos exemplares da primeira fase da carreira de Hitchcock e diverte mais do que impressiona . While Hitchcock went on to make even better films , this one sets a standard of pure entertainment that has only occasionally been matched in succeeding decades . [ R ] epresents Hitchcock 's work at its most charming ... . [ T ] he suspense is tonic rather than truly frightening , and almost comically glamorous . Underrated early Hitch with a killer finale . 	One of Alfred Hitchcock 's last British films , this glamorous thriller provides an early glimpse of the director at his most stylishly entertaining .
invincible Papale 's story is more than any fan could dream of , which is why it 's frustrating that Invincible feels the need to embellish it . Out of work schoolteacher and part-time bartender , Philadelphia Eagles football fan Vince Papale ( Mark Wahlberg ) had nothing to lose when new coach Dick Vermeil ( Greg Kinnear ) held an open tryout . With sheer determination and stamina , Papale made the team It may seem that Invincible takes too long to get to the football . But by the time it does get down to it , we 've invested enough in Wahlberg and Kinnear to give a damn about the outcome of the all-important Big Game . A little `` Rocky , '' a little `` Rookie , '' and all heart , `` Invincible '' is a good-natured sports movie that 's as uplifting as it looks . What 's modestly refreshing about the way this story is told by director Eric Core and writer Brad Gann , is that the person with the largest doubts about going pro is Papele himself . Ultimately , the movie fulfills its mission , which is to fire up viewers with its can-do attitude . Led by Mark Wahlberg at his most underdoggedly appealing , this is about as soft sell as this prefab genre gets . It drags and drags and drags . About the only people bound to find fault are die-hard Giants , Cowboys , and Redskins fans If it were n't true , people would never have believed it . 	As simple and authentic as the gritty South Philly invirons in which it 's set in , Invincible sends a uplifting and heartfelt message packed with an athletic enthusiasm that should n't be missed .
mummy returns Um filme que diverte a platia durante cerca de duas horas , mas que prontamente esquecido no momento em que as luzes se acendem . A piss-poor mummy movie indeed that does n't deliver a damn thing worth preserving . It 's a great popcorn flick . As the debut entry in the 2001 summer movie derby , The Mummy Returns rocks . It 's da 'balm ! ' Pathetically contrived and sadly unoriginal . The problem with The Mummy Returns is that it tries to qualify the need for a sequel with an extraordinarily unnecessary amount of plot . A sequel that 's better than the original . Big and dumb and loads of fun . The best in this genre since the gold standard of adventure movies , the Indiana Jones series . 	In The Mummy Returns , the special effects are impressive , but the characters seem secondary to the computer generated imagery .
star trek 11 A bold , entertaining reboot . A franchise is reborn , at warp speed . I loved it so much I wanted to Vulcan mind meld with it . Star Trek does a remarkable job hitting all the right notes with die-hard Trekkies and engaging those who 've never heard of a tribble . The bar for summer 2009 blockbusters is set very high . Star Trek pulsates with adventure and thrills , infectious with its boyish enthusiasm to entertain and respectful enough to pay tribute to the cult series that came before it . See it . With this new , dynamic duo in place , the possibilities for exploring the fabled final frontier seem endless . Embora concebido com a preocupao de permitir que os `` no-iniciados '' possam acompanhar a histria , o roteiro inteligente o bastante para incluir uma srie de referncias que certamente provocaro pequenos orgasmos de reconhecimento nos fs . A largely thrilling surprise , its blend of humor , romance and action so kinetically orchestrated that calling out its shortcomings feels like excessive carping . The film is a success because of beautiful visuals , swift storytelling that never loses its momentum , and the sheer joy of having these characters back in our lives again . Reintroduces critical elements the franchise has not seen in years - cultural relevance , suspense , and a fresh sense of wonder 	Star Trek reignites a classic franchise with action , humor , a strong story , and brilliant visuals , and will please traditional Trekkies and new fans alike .
deep end Takes the quiet , nonviolent approach to conjuring up thrills . An exploration -- and celebration -- of the higher humanity that links us beneath our baser sexual motivations . A film as visually arresting as its story . A thrummingly satisfying '40s-style women 's melodrama cleverly disguised as an art-house picture . A tale of lies , secrets , and death in what should be the safest of settings -- home -- that becomes an implied metaphor for all that mothers do for their children that goes unnoticed . Sucks us into its vortex of sex , lies and videotape and refuses to let go -- at least for the first hour or so . A film that is diverting but not memorable . The Deep End does what too few films even attempt -- it takes an ordinary life and places it in an extraordinary situation just believable enough to be terrifying . Smart , suspenseful and subtly moving . Margaret does n't throw punches , just rolls with them . Some of her actions ca n't be objectively condoned . But through a maternal prism , Tilda Swinton makes sure they 're understood , with skill sly enough to register strongly in the most ordinary of roles . 	A well-acted film noir with arresting visuals .
forgetting sarah marshall Forgetting Sarah Marshall is , as of April , the funniest movie of 2008 . Even though the Hawaii locations are beautiful , without Russell Brand this film would be a big dud . While Segel is mildly amusing , Russell Brand steals the show as Brit rocker Aldous Snow , Sarah Marshall 's ( Kristen Bell ) new squeeze . Forgetting Sarah Marshall should please audiences eager for silly summer comedy ( particularly , the Hawaiian sunshine should delight those currently enduring a gray Seattle spring ) . You know exactly where , and the pleasure of Forgetting Sarah Marshall is in how it gets there . Forgetting Sarah Marshall is at least as good as the two Apatow-directed movies , with a script that might be both a little sharper and a little more romantic . An instant classic . This is a fairly low-keyed comedy , but a grown-up dropping in on it can appreciate its lack of frenzy , its fundamental good nature , as easily as its core audience will . It is n't exactly a gem , but as zircons go , it 'll do . Like its hero , Forgetting Sarah Marshall is a little soft around the middle , but all the more loveable for that . Forgetting Sarah Marshall pretends to be an outrageous comedy , but still ends up finding a way to relate to everyone on a much more emotional level . 	With ample laughs and sharp performances , Forgetting Sarah Marshall finds just the right mix of romantic and raunchy comedy .
nanny mcphee returns The movie is very uneven in tone and in quality , with charming nonsense colliding with what appears to be devastating tragedy . This is smart , witty and beautifully crafted -- exactly what you want from a family film . In her own film , Nanny McPhee holds the impact of a day player . It 's nice to see Nanny McPhee back again , even if she 's every bit as scary as she was when she first appeared . A spoonful of sugar , a half-cup of schmaltz and some synchronized-swimming CGI piglets help the moral medicine go down a second time . It 's an amusing , wonderfully arranged sequel that brands the character as a cinematic force to be reckoned with , hopefully for the few more adventures to come . One of those rare kids ' movies that entertains both little ones and grownups . Writer/producer/star Emma Thompson resurrects the titular , magic-practising child-carer of her 2005 Mary Poppins-riffing hit for yet more old-fashioned , family-centric fun in this slightly improved sequel . One is always in good hands with Thompson , even in this kiddie franchise ... for the kids , there 's not only the sobering reminder that they 're works in progress but also lots of ... fairy-tale magic , with a touch of Babe 's farm charm . The real scene stealers in Nanny McPhee Returns are the child actors . 	Emma Thompson 's second labor of love with the Nanny McPhee character actually improves on the first , delivering charming family fare with an excellent cast .
precious Recommending `` Precious '' proves challenging , regardless of the film 's quality . ... But to skip it would mean missing some fantastic performances . Un drama duro , conmovedor , que rescata la importancia de la solidaridad y la asistencia social ante la desesperanza . Hay un increble duelo actoral entre Mo'Nique y Gabourey Sidibe , dos de las mayores revelaciones actorales del ao . It 's a shame that Daniels is so unconvincing in his execution , because the performances mostly go for broke and there does seem to be a nugget of courage to Fletcher 's screenplay . Director Lee Daniels shows you a world scarier than any imagined for some horror film because it is real -- just outside our doors or around the corner Screenwriter Geoffrey Fletcher and director Lee Daniels manage to pile on the misfortunes without making 'Precious ' maudlin or dour . Gabourey Sidibe and Mo'Nique are utterly compelling , and hopefully their performances will be recognised come Oscar time . A hybrid , a mash-up that might have been ungainly , but that manages to be graceful instead . Sidibe 's downright jaw-dropping performance undoubtedly goes a long way towards creating and maintaining an atmosphere of raw authenticity ... The story 's world is stacked against Precious , and the movie 's marketing engine is stacked against Sidibe , but in some ways those structures explain why we 're hearing about this young woman in the first place . Watching `` Precious , '' you have to wonder -- does it offer this year 's inconvenient truth ? 	Precious is a grim yet ultimately triumphant film about abuse and inner-city life , largely bolstered by exceptional performances from its cast .
raising arizona Raising Arizona possesses such a bounty of thematic offerings that , despite its objective strengths , no praise matches the height of my own commendation The laughs keep coming courtesy of the many slapstick highlights that litter this fast and furious action comedy . A wacky , happy , daring , darkly comic tale of parenting outside the law . What we have here is a film shot down by its own forced and mannered style . One of the most original and clever little comedies I 've really ever seen , and it 's all due to the greatness that is the Coen Brothers . Has all the classic excesses of a Coens movie -- brilliantly crazed characters , apparently nonsensical dialogue and some fantastic camera shots . The immense joy of this is in the realization that , for all their precision , Joel and Ethan Coen are essentially comic barnstormers rather than frigid ironists Joel e Ethan Coen formam , possivelmente , a dupla mais inventiva que j passou por Hollywood . Raising Arizona ... is an explosively clever and riotously funny exploration of fertility , homemaking , and the working class in the prisons and trailer parks of the desert southwest . Starting from a point of delirious excess , the film leaps into dark and virtually uncharted territory to soar like a comet . 	A terrifically original , eccentric screwball comedy , Raising Arizona may not be the Coens ' most disciplined movie , but it 's one of their most purely entertaining .
timecop Some impressive Terminator-type special effects , various plot holes , kung-fu derring-do and action as well as some wooden acting by the muscles from Brussels make for Saturday matinee entertainment , but little else . Good dumb fun . Thanks to Hyams ' professionalism , Timecop is a slickly-made , fast-paced and mildly-diverting B movie . Is it even praise to call a film 'one of Van Damme 's better efforts ' ? Try calling your wife 's meatloaf 'the least nauseating thing I 've even all week ' and see what she thinks . Waste of a great premise . They go back in time to 1994 . Ooooh . Being a time-travel epic , plot holes abound here , but it 's Van Damme 's cute little attempt at being the family man that ruins that oh-so-necessary willing suspension of disbelief . It is fun , but it 's no Terminator . Only worth renting if you 've got a poker game and a bottle of Jack Daniels going . View it straight and you 'll be too busy rolling your eyes to keep up . This brainless romp [ is ] a real blast . For the most part , Hyams ' lackluster direction and the repetitive quality of the action sequences squander an intriguing premise and impressive production design , leaving few moments that elicit the sort of 'Wow ! ' response such fare needs in order to pros 	It 's no Terminator , but for those willing to suspend disbelief and rational thought , Timecop provides limited sci-fi action rewards .
paranormal activity 2 It 's kind of distressing how willing the movie is to tread the same old ground . It even goes so far as to replicate one of the original 's best money shots . On and on the cheap parlor tricks of Paranormal Activity 2 go , and none of them approach the ingenuity of the ones in the first film . ... there 's little doubt that Paranormal Activity 2 ultimately fares slightly better than its pervasively lackluster forebear . full review at Movies for the Masses It 's very effective and intense , creating tension with small things like an open door or a spinning mobile over a child 's crib . Just more of the same , with the cast aggressively trying to sell the `` reality '' of this found-footage picture , which only reinforces its obvious artificiality ... flattens the initial burst of surprise into irksome retread . ca n't quite evoke the escalating dread and moments of sheer terror that Peli orchestrated so maliciously in the original film , but it still delivers more than its share of tension and scares A minor improvement , largely ditching cheap Pavlovian parlor tricks that ruined the first film . However , the coda makes a creaky bid for annual franchise status . At one point , the 1930s are mentioned . Let me guess : Hand-cranked cameras for that one ? Paranormal Activity 2 should have been a quick , cynical cash in on the original . Instead , it 's a chiller that stands tall on its own . In its minimal , low-budget way , Paranormal Activity 2 summons some chills , but it 's most of all a scheme to make millions from a miniscule investment . 	Paranormal Activity 2 does n't cover any new ground , but its premise is still scary -- and in some respects , it 's a better film than the original .
1114154-insomnia An engrossing and inventive thriller . A classic example of a director bringing his own vision to the mainstream . What a fine film Insomnia is . Wonderfully good . Pacino is on world-beating form and Williams delivers his best straight performance yet . Continually challenges perceptions of guilt and innocence , of good guys and bad , and asks us whether a noble end can justify evil means . The Hollywood remake feels oddly castrated when compared to the original . The talented Nolan wo n't need to lose any sleep over whether he lived up to expectations . At its core , a standard cop drama , complete with the climactic crescendo of violence . But by then we 're completely in its spell . Anyone who caught the original `` Insomnia '' will tell you Skjoldbjaerg did a solid job with this material . Nolan and his team , however , have taken the story to new heights . Allows us to hope that Nolan is poised to embark a major career as a commercial yet inventive filmmaker . 	Driven by Pacino 's performance , Insomnia is a smart and riveting psychological drama .
chopper You wonder why anyone even bothered . fatally unforgettable tale of a man who makes you ashamed to be human . [ Read 's ] unpredictability lends Chopper considerable suspense . As the film quickly loses perspective of Chopper Read 's alleged crimes and lifestyle , it begins to slowly glorify him as an icon of self-made celebrity . Whether or not you care if Chopper lives or dies , you simply ca n't take your eyes off him . Unsettling and at times uneven , but always fascinating material for anyone prepared for a grim ride . The film is really much ado about very little because it takes no stand and gives little insight into the Chopper 's psyche , all while too carefully catering to his machinated media image . There 's not nearly enough actual intrigue or suspense to maintain a feature film . Full of flawed , stylistic overdrive . Bana is electrifying in this plum role . 	Eric Bana 's performance as the charming but twisted Chopper is the highlight of this disturbing portrait about Australia 's notorious author/criminal .
run lola run What 's more , this stylish , hugely likeable bit of adrenaline-pumped Euro-nonsense should shatter the illusions of those convinced that all subtitled fare is musty , wordy and dull . Run Lola Run is fun , fun , fun . Teenagers with a taste for the offbeat may enjoy . Run Lola Run is loaded with cinematic effects that in the hands of someone less professional than Tykwer could have come across as the work of an NYU film student . despite its brittle techno-punk rhythms and spots of nihilism ... this is sort of a throwback to the days before the talkies it is a German film that is being hailed for its stylishness , even to the degree that it 's worth seeing just for its look ... It 's a furiously kinetic display of pyrotechnics from the director Tom Tykwer , who fuses lightning-fast visual tricks , tirelessly shifting styles and the arbitrary possibilities of interactive storytelling ... Run Lola Run is the feverish , wish-fulfillment embodiment of everyone 's unspoken dream ... A giant pinball game of a movie , Run Lola Run may be superficial and relatively meaningless , but it sure is great fun . It 's never , ever boring . And , importantly , it knows exactly when to quit . 	More fun than a barrel of Jean-Paul Sartre , pic 's energy riffs on an engaging love story and really human performances while offering a series of what-ifs and a blood-stirring soundtrack .
day i became a woman So breathtakingly textural , so empathic in its images , that it transcends its context and achieves timelessness . An episodic drama rich in sly humor and symbolic imagery . [ Meshkini 's ] filmmaking debut announces the arrival of an undeniable talent that has come of age . Lest you think you 're in for a one-note feminist jingle , know that the imagery on display here is thrilling enough to quiet that criticism . It makes its characters specific enough to relate to , but even more wonderful is how it makes you discover new things for yourself in their brief stories . These simple episodes are all admirable but rarely engaging . Exhilarating . You leave not only engaged with the three main characters , but also wondering about their fate , hoping for the best . reasonably intriguing It has only fitful power as a work of art and/or entertainment . 	Meshkini has made an excellent contribution to Iranian cinema with this poetic , emotionally poignant film .
thomas crown affair the A slick thriller with sizzling chemistry between Russo and Brosnan . Stylish , good-looking and frequently arresting , at least until its plot turns too far-fetched to buy . Thomas Crown is brilliant ! Enjoyable ! It might be fun to see on an airplane or rent on video . A stylish , witty and romantic romp ! The Thomas Crown Affair is a refreshingly straightforward entertainment film , made with great style . Clever storyline , nicely crafted . Pretty to look at , but no punch . Engaging and well-acted ! 	Sleek , stylish , and painlessly diverting , The Thomas Crown Affair is a remake of uncommon charm .
black death-2010 This movie had a lot of potential , but missed the mark for me , which is almost worse than a film being a complete waste of time . [ VIDEO ] Here is a medieval adventure movie bathed in blood and mud . Most satisfying is the film 's refusal to patronize the audience with any hat-tip toward some underlying religious import . There are n't many British horror films you could call Bergmanesque with even slim justification , but Christopher Smith 's Black Death is out of the ordinary . There 's something here for just about everyone , or at least for everyone who looks back fondly on the similarly themed Wicker Man from 1973 . Carries authentic aesthetics , a dread-drenched tone , and provocative food-for-thought ideas involving religious hysteria that prove timely even in the 21st-century . Bean owns this movie . There are some interesting ideas at play here and some well-timed twists , but it 's not remotely scary at any point . While not as good as 'Triangle , ' 'Black Death ' does solidify Christopher Smith 's standing as a great horror filmmaker . Dark and dirty entertainment . Director Chris Smith delivers plenty of meaty action here and deploys twists that while not earth-shattering , are satisfyingly clever enough to make this a solid genre flick . 	Black Death delivers the fire and brimstone violence its subject matter warrants , while posing some interesting questions of faith and religion .
house of flying daggers You could overdose on beauty at House of Flying Daggers . The most gorgeous movie of the year . House of Flying Daggers is more like House of All My Children . With this many melodramatic twists and turns , Ziyi Zhang should have been replaced with Susan Lucci Yet another dazzling display by Yimou . Gorgeous , but also very violent . Made me long for the days when director Zhang Yimou made intimate movies with emotional depth . A soapy love story that gallops across a snowy Autumn Hallmark card . Beautiful to look at , but deficient in the plot department . a tedious ... excuse for this director to indulge his fetish for digitalized blood and daggers and ... immaculately composed nature shots An absolute must-see . 	The visual splendor of the movie makes up for the weak story .
1193111-edge of heaven Akin 's purpose , I think , is a simple one : He wants us to meet these people , know them , sympathize with them ... .I found them fascinating . There 's a profundity to Fatih Akin 's film as it explores relationships between father and son , mother and daughter , friends and lovers , as their lives become interconnected and their actions impact on each other . A gripping film . If you 're anywhere near a city that 's playing it in a theater , I could n't be more direct - go see it . You will not regret it and not soon forget the best film so far this year . Intricate and moving drama about life 's struggles and near misses . [ It 's ] a much-needed maturation of the Babel/Crash formula but also fails to rattle your bones the way those movies did . Pick your poison , I suppose . He [ director Fatih Akin ] makes the random moments and chance encounters of life seem both utterly unpredictable and completely inevitable . Akin 's latest masterwork may ... mark him as the man to inherit the mantle of the late , great Krzysztof Kieslowski . As a director [ Akin ] is clearly a humanist , championing the virtues of forgiveness and relying on strong narrative and deep sympathy for his characters to drive his movies . Loneliness , loss and capricious love guide the fortunes of three families in this powerful , beautifully realized drama by German-Turkish writer/director Fatih Akin . Strong and artful and well-made , but it also feels like its unpredictability is actually predictable , that its unconventional narrative is , in fact , conventional . 	Evocative and complex , this story of struggling immigrants in Germany will stay with you after you leave the theater .
from dusk till dawn Ask yourself `` am I the kind of person who finds topless vampire strippers a source of constant amusement ? '' Only those who answer an enthusiastic `` YES ! '' need apply . What we have here in From Dusk Till Dawn is Pulp Fiction with teeth . Imagine two movies plucked from opposite sides of the video store . This is the `` Reservoir Dogs '' with a twist of `` Near Dark '' set to the tune of `` Assault on Precinct 13 . '' These bad-boy auteurs will have to discover some new ideas if they do n't want to end up as terminally soulless as the monsters who stalk their movie . The film is so flamboyantly gory and disgusting , so vulgar and in-your-face obnoxious , with so many offensive subplots and wacked-out elements that you may give up long before you need to reach for your second headache tablet . Fans of the genre will like it , especially in the no-holds barred second half . Others are advised to avoid this one . The movie , which treats you with contempt for even watching it , is a monument to its own lack of imagination . It is a shame to see so much good talent giving such low-yield results . Like a Cheesecake Blizzard : It 's a pulpy mess loaded with empty calories , but it 's so divine that once you start , you ca n't help but shovel it into your mouth until the last drop , brain freeze and diet be damned . 	A pulpy crime drama/vampire film hybrid , From Dusk Till Dawn is an uneven but often deliriously enjoyable B-movie .
heaven knows what Cinematography by Sean Price Williams is extraordinary , overhead shots of junkies walking along a tony NYC street or a tight shot in a corner of a public library creating a specific , insular world within a diverse and distinctive city Heaven Knows What is n't interested in merely exploring the world of New York City addicts . It wants to make their experiences felt . The whole cast feels authentic , and the Safdies wisely avoid melodrama , keeping a grip on grimy reality that keeps a grip on us . One junkie story tends to be much like another , so give brothers Josh and Benny Safdie credit for crafting one that 's genuinely distinctive . It 's not pro-drug per se but it does get them , and it gets , better than most films , that being hooked on dope is a lifestyle and , in part , a job . Heaven Knows What [ has ] a backstory precisely as fraught as what happens on screen . And that 's pretty fraught . Structurally too loose but the music in the soundtrack is awards-worthy . Aesthetically , the Safdies ' have made a picture of urgent , abrasive beauty . It 's hard to watch , and hard to turn away . The fourth feature by New York brothers Ben and Joshua Safdie , Heaven Knows What is a bracing , inside look at homeless life . `` Heaven Know What '' gives back to people , who , on the rare occasions they 're even seen onscreen , are usually deprived of any agency at all , at least a little ownership of their stories . 	Grueling and rewarding in equal measure , Heaven Knows What hits hard -- and serves as a powerful calling card for its captivating star , Arielle Holmes .
mad max Manages not to waste a single frame of film even as it wastes countless motorcycles , trailers , automobiles and other vehicles across the bad roads of rural Australia . Mad Max is ugly and incoherent , and aimed , probably accurately , at the most uncritical of moviegoers . Made in 1979 , Mad Max set the tone for Eighties action films with its futuristic setting , its vivid violence , and its lone hero trying to hold the world at bay . ... one of the most original and visionary post-apocalyptic adventures ever made . Great , grungy , energetic story , eclipsed only by the sequel . Mad Max is a straight forward fusion of two B-movie genres popular in the 1970s : the car chase film and the vigilante revenge film . An action masterpiece ... A solid and entertaining spectacle , filled with brilliantly staged action scenes and made all the more fascinating for its oracular indication of the age of bold movie science fiction that was to follow . Like all of the best exploitation films , it transcends its limitations while simultaneously embracing them . The greatest example of Ozploitation movies , George Miller 's 1979 `` Mad Max '' is a pure cinematic anomaly . 	Staging the improbable car stunts and crashes to perfection , director George Miller succeeds completely in bringing the violent , post-apocalyptic world of Mad Max to visceral life .
the weather underground A chilling , cautionary tale that needs to be seen by a wide audience . My only fear is that many will take away the wrong message from the film , thinking how daring these young revolutionaries were as they tried to blow up our government . Proves to those few of us who try to see both sides of an argument that evil is a mere perception . It 's the thought of telling the other side of the story , or at least the side that has been forgotten , that makes the subject matter so refreshing and enthralling . With respect to its title subject , the infamous splinter group of the nonviolent Students for a Democratic Society , pic is unaccountably soft . What it needs is more context , social and psychological . A compelling piece of work that turns out to have unexpected relevance to the current world situation . A smart , absorbing , often exhilarating documentary . This film should be seen by every American , particularly those too young to have lived through those times . Harkens to a time when political posturing attended to stakes that were real . Powerful and surprisingly timely . 	Fascinating documentary about the militant Weathermen .
frequency I realized there was a surprising potential for a provocative film if only its makers had not taken a wrong step at every turn . Aggressively stupid . The best film of the year so far ! It is good enough that like The Sixth Sense , it may attract a lot of second-time viewers just to straighten it all out . Frequency 's downward spiral is such a tremendous slap in the face that it all but negates the sound , intelligent and engrossing first hour of the movie . Frequency is what you 'd get by taking Back to the Future and making it slow and schmaltzy . A rather choppy ride , fraught with sweet pleasures and trite perils , and vice versa . Open up and swallow Frequency 's far-fetched premise , and you might just find yourself yearning for those late-seventies years when feel-good sci-fi like E.T . was king . Features plenty of soft-focus , picture-perfect , father-and-son baseball scenes , an enormous amount of plot , and not quite enough of anything else . It 's easy to recommend Frequency for the things it does right in each of its incarnations . 	A tight blend of surprises and suspense keeps audiences spellbound .
1144274-sahara 'National Treasure Lite ' ... a movie that would probably be perfect in-flight entertainment , or maybe even a decent video rental on a night when you 're in an undemanding mood . Breck Eisner 's youthful , fresh grasp of the high-adventure genre . This should have been his audition reel for helming 007/21 . Sahara wo n't be competing for any Oscars , but it is goofy , light-hearted fun . How seriously can you take a movie in which Penelope Cruz , wearing a bucket of eye make-up , plays a World Health Organization physician who investigates plagues ? For `` Sahara , '' the problem is that we have the Indiana Jones movies to compare it to , and I 'm afraid there 's no comparison . It 's never more than a likable poseur . This is a big , lively romp , filmed in a lushly expansive epic style even though it 's basically low-rent James Bond . Sahara is such an enigmatic piece of filmmaking that it never settles on a tone and whose downtime in-between the action is going to ease audiences into a gentle slumber . Dirk is less the `` adventurer '' of the novels than a very tanned , very bland former Navy SEAL/current treasure hunter/archaeologist , the average capitalist yahoo . It ai n't art , and it 's dumber than I 'd like , but I do n't imagine you were expecting Kieslowski . jumps from plotline to plotline , stringing them together with a series of action setpieces that fulfill their obligations , but little more 	A mindless adventure flick with a preposterous plot .
50 first dates it begins with a walrus vomiting ... the thought of Sandler seducing dozens of honeys is enough to make anybody feel like that unfortunate walrus ( goo goo goo joob ) . Feels like an improv sketch that ca n't get off the ground because the performers keep cracking up and having to start over . This pedestrian pic starring Adam Sandler and Drew Barrymore never gets out of neutral , and should have been left in park -- back in the junkyard . Sandler cant eliminate the sophomoric jokes , but opposite Barrymore he is willing to send them to the back burner so their romantic combustion can percolate up front . If there 's one thing to commend in 50 First Dates , apart from the finest walrus performances this side of Marineland , it 's Barrymore , whose irrepressible cheerfulness and buoyancy at least makes Henry 's motivation anything but mysterious . Sandler wants to be charming and still fill his movie with gross comedy , to have his cake and puke it up , too . tries to have it both ways : earn tears and sniffling smiles from the sentimental and big guffaws from those who like vomit , penis , and gay jokes [ A ] fter the spate of painful rom-coms that have started the movie year , even one that features an explosively vomiting walrus somehow seems like a breath of fresh air . Way closer to a being a post-There 's Something About Mary Farrelly brothers movie than Sandler 's typical fare . As bumpy as the screenplay is , the movie still manages to make us care for the characters . 	Gross-out humor overwhelms the easy chemistry between Adam Sandler and Drew Barrymore , who bring some energy and yucks to this tale of a girl with short-term memory loss and the guy who tries to get her to love him .
ed wood Landau 's Lugosi is an alternately amusing and heartbreaking character who is given one last taste of life while in orbit around Wood 's infectious mania Droll and witty , Burton 's tribute evokes the career of Hollywood 's `` worst '' director by making a most stylishly polished production [ An ] oddly affectionate bio-pic . Johnny Depp is a master of his craft ... Burton 's film lacks nothing Making a movie about the life of Ed Wood certainly qualifies as an impossible dream , but Burton has pulled it off with wit , imagination and something amazingly close to grace . Depp 's magnificent performance , plus Burton 's love of his subject make for a wonderful film . Landau is magnificent as Bela Lugosi . A great film that celebrates the little filmmakers who dreamed big . Bizarrely amusing . A droll riot . Outrageously disjointed and just as outrageously entertaining , the picture stands as a successful outsider 's tribute to a failed kindred spirit . Tim Burton 's masterpiece 	Tim Burton and Johnny Depp team up to fete the life and work of cult hero Ed Wood , with typically strange and wonderful results .
1079818-anastasia Basically reduces the Russian Revolution to a big kaboodle of cuteness , which may give kids the wrong impression of what actually happened . In a fall season that 's already given us its share of turkeys , there should be room for any film as handsome and touching as this one . Click to read the article . It would n't work without the fabulous cast . Ryan brings a fieriness to her role that we have n't seen ( well , heard ) from her in awhile , and Cusack is an able foil . A gorgeous piece of work . This entertaining animated feature is a dream-catcher , tapping into the universal yearning for home and love . A promising launch for Fox 's new animation studio , which has declared war on Disney . Judging from their voices , about as close to Europe as most of these characters have ever gotten is probably Fresno . Bluth has rediscovered the ingredients of quality mainstream animation ... Anastasia is a mixed bag , but viewers ought to hope it succeeds : Disney could use the competition . 	Beautiful animation , an affable take on Russian history , and strong voice performances make Anastasia a winning first film from Fox animation studios .
corporation There 's at least one great hour of filmmaking in The Corporation . Snappy and visually spry , with a treasure trove of vintage instructional and industrial film clips , this is an urgent , overlong ( more than two hours ) work that delivers a timely message about the times in which we live . If the filmmakers show a bias ( and they do ) , it does n't negate their central argument : For better or worse , the trends of global capitalism have changed -- and continue to change -- society as we know it . Well-rounded and fair , yet its core arguments are so strong that it inspires responsible and immediate activism . The film deserves to be seen , and its concepts deserve to be discussed in an open forum . Acerbic , sardonically illuminating . Utterly fascinating , an exhaustive and engaging study of business as it has evolved since the Civil War . suffers only from an overabundance of ideas An impassioned polemic , filled with information sure to break up any dinner-table conversation . Mark Achbar , Jennifer Abbott and Joel Bakan have crafted an informative , amusing and unnerving overview of the history and consequences of corporations . 	The Corporation is a satisfyingly dense , thought-provoking rebuttal to some of capitalism 's central arguments .
walking tall The Rock is walking tall as a premier action star . Unlike so many of our recent action heroes , the Rock seems to be less about anger and revenge than about justice and self-discipline , a nuance that is also a saving grace . Enjoy The Rock until he becomes governor . This revised Walking Tall has only kinetic energy going for it . Exciting stuff in its primitive , predictable way . This Walking Tall loses in depth what it gains in star power . There was a time when guys would grab a six-pack and watch this kind of flick at a drive-in . I mean that as a compliment . It 's not a bad story at all , but the filmmakers strip it of any meaning or purpose . The film is merely a series of set-piece montages . Entertaining . Remake of the '70s vigilante smash is a low-grade meat-and-potatoes action flick with The Rock and Johnny Knoxville providing a little gravy . 	The Rock makes a competent hero , but the movie is content to let a 2x4 do all the talking .
star wars episode ii attack of the clones 3d The dialogue is so wooden that you can use it for batting practice ... Just sit back and let your eyes feast on the wonderfully imaginative visuals . Attack of the mildly engaging plot . It 's too long , it 's too dull , it 's too lame . Wonder , hope and magic can never escape the heart of the boy when the right movie comes along , especially if it begins with the name of Star Wars As bright as a light saber , George Lucas strikes back with stunning imagery and the best ending yet to his popular series . Bristles with excitement in every frame making this installment a high-energy adventure . All ... Lucas appears to be capable of these days is producing enough fireworks in his last act to elicit hope in his audience that his next installment will be better Consistently thrilling and massively enjoyable , Clones redeems Lucas ' reputation after Menace . While it was always clear that Lucas cared more about special effects than acting , here his lack of interest has produced phenomenally wooden performances from newcomers and veterans alike . Makes The Phantom Menace seem like one long clearing of the throat before Lucas could begin to tell the real story . 	Though it still suffers from an overabundance of exposition , the action quotient is upped considerably in Star Wars : Episode II - Attack of the Clones , which makes it an improvement over The Phantom Menace .
few good men Like a roast that 's baked too long , the acting in this film is 'over done . ' The screenplay is a good one , directed with care and acted , for the most part , with terrific conviction . An extraordinarily well-made movie , which wastes no words or images in telling a conventional but compelling story . More than competent are Moore , spared from what would have been a phony romantic involvement with Cruise , Kevin Bacon as a prosecutor and Kiefer Sutherland as a by-the-book Marine . The driving force of the story is watching Cruise`s character develop some backbone and staying power . Entertaining but contrived . It 's a grand undertaking that wrangles with the heavy questions that cropped up at Nuremberg and My Lai , questions that deserve and get lots of imposing shots of monuments and not a little swashbuckling from the big stars . I 'm usually a sucker for courtroom dramas , but Rob Reiner 's highly mechanical 1992 feature ... kept putting me to sleep . As you may have suspected , Jack Nicholson steals the show . His Col. Nathan Jessep is n't in a lot of scenes , but when he 's there , you ca n't take your eyes off him . The literally in-your-face camera work can easily expose an actor 's weaknesses , but , with the lens framed on Nicholson 's bulldog visage , he lets loose with volcanic fury . His demagoguery and gung-ho self-righteousness are something to behold . 	An old-fashioned courtroom drama with a contemporary edge , A Few Good Men succeeds on the strength of its stars , with Tom Cruise , Demi Moore , and especially Jack Nicholson delivering powerful performances that more than compensate for the predictable plot .
groundhog day In an interesting twist on reincarnation , Phil keeps coming back to the same day until he gets it right . I liked Groundhog Day quite a bit , with its shades of old Scrooge and its eternal philosophical questions of why were here and what were up to . What places it in the pantheon of great Hollywood comedies is that it manages to be wildly humorous without being moronic , romantic without being cloying , and meaningful without being preachy . Funny and well-acted , Groundhog Day should be seen for both its comic and sci-fi elements . The day is not a redo ; it 's a `` one more . '' This movie has all the qualities necessary to be a crowd-pleaser : likable characters , charismatic performers , a strong , capably-executed premise , and lots of laughs . One would hardly expect Murray and Ramis to come up with a gentle , sweet-natured romantic comedy that wanders into high-minded Frank Capra territory . The movie deserves its fans , earns our respect , delivers richly on its initial promises if not always on its greater ones , and rewards multiple viewings , even as it carries a built-in joke about the typical shelf-life of repeated experience . As well as a perfect star vehicle , the film is a brilliant analysis of the implications of the film 's simple conceit . [ A ] great American comedy . 	Smart , sweet , and inventive , Groundhog Day highlights Murray 's dramatic gifts while still leaving plenty of room for laughs .
dark crystal Points to the Henson team for trying to broaden the scope of their creatures -- and there 's little denying that this particular flick still seems to hold up pretty darn well . Crystal is a miraculous rush of innovation and storytelling patience , and , in the last 25 years , the film has grown from a 1982 misfire , to a cult wonder , to a bona-fide classic that 's timeless in stature and masterful in execution . This ersatz Tolkien with puppets looks and plays like ersatz Tolkien with puppets . Os personagens so bem realizados e animados , mas o roteiro , alm de plagiar O Senhor dos Anis , burocrtico e pouco envolvente . A fantastic , but more intense Muppet adventure . Immerses us in a familiar yet utterly unique world that 's deeper , wider and more vibrantly alive than any mere puppetry . The screenplay by David Odell , based on a story by Mr. Henson , is without any narrative drive whatever . It 's without charm as well as interest . One of the most imaginative films I 've ever seen , a fitting tribute to the brilliant career of the late master puppeteer , Jim Henson . An extraordinary , often mesmerizing achievement of design and performance that 's held back by an underdeveloped script and a milquetoast leading character . One of Henson 's shining moments in modern-day cinema 	The Dark Crystal 's narrative never quite lives up to the movie 's visual splendor , but it remains an admirably inventive and uniquely intense entry in the Jim Henson canon .
irreversible The acting , especially from the feral Cassel and self-possessed Bellucci , is good . ... one must remember that director Gaspar Noe is presenting fictional images to support his cynical response to Stanley Kubrick 's hopeful `` 2001 . '' The detached clinical methodical style of some reptilian film critics since its release scrutinize the positioning of the camera in the rape scene -- almost like an autopsy . By spinning his tale in reverse order , Noe has come up with a thought-provoking drama that 's more than just a gimmick . Has a raw immediacy and momentum I 've rarely seen sustained over the length of a movie . Is there a point to this spew , a cry against the mongrel violence of men ? Or is Noe merely a sadist who enjoys inflicting ugly , pitiless images on his audience ? Excruciating exercise in voyeurism , provocation and pretentiousness . The hard , lurid images catch you in a vise . But dramatically , with few exceptions , it 's a mess . The opening 50 minutes are brutal , but if you can take the punishment , you 'll probably be wowed by No 's skills as a filmmaker . A genuine outlaw work of art . 	Though well-filmed , Irreversible feels gratuitous in its extreme violence .
bottle shock Predictable in its moves , it 's engaging enough , though it has nowhere near the characterisation , say , of Paul Giamatti and Thomas Hayden Church in Sideways . With much loving , longing gazing at the Napa Valley landscape , it 's awfully good-looking , if you can discount the high-waisted bell-bottoms and the homely yellow AMC Gremlin that wheezes into scenes every once in a while . The soul of the grape , that thing that elevates a wine to greatness , proves here as elusive on screen as in the bottle . The only thing that differentiates this 'movie ' from an infomercial is its unbearable feature length . If you have to sit through it , bring plenty to drink . In light of all its swooping and swishing helicopter shots of the sun-dappled Napa Valley , [ it ] might as well have been photographed from the bridge of the Starship Enterprise . Rickman is priceless as the self-parodying wine snob , stealing every scene he is in by continually pulling the rug from under himself . Although not entirely without its charms , the film comes up somewhat short and while there is n't much of anything wrong with it , there is n't much of anything right with it either . If Bottle Shock were a wine , someone would probably call it amusing with a hint of apricot . I 'd just call it a heck of a lot of fun . Comedy and drama are nicely balanced in this mostly true tale . Why did I feel such affection for this scruffy , hokey little movie ? Maybe it 's the same logic that applies to wine-drinking itself : Sure , a great claret would be ideal , but an OK ros is better than washing down your dinner with water . 	Bottle Shock fails to properly utilize the inspiring true tale at its core , settling instead for an ordinary , plodding account .
cat in the hat Another Dr. Seuss classic gets the big-screen treatment ... and it 's not that much of a treat . If you liked Death to Smoochy , you are going to love The Cat in the Hat . I enjoyed the film ! Should by no means be considered family fodder . Small kids should love it , and parents may find themselves pleasantly amused . What sick mind thought this was appropriate humor for a holiday movie geared to youngsters ? It has filler that ranges from the superfluous to the distracting and some inexcusably vulgar humor , but when Cat takes over , it is entertaining . It 's about as bad as you 'd fear . [ An ] excruciatingly unfunny live-action comedy . A truer title would be Mike Myers ' Cat in the Hat , since this coarse , loud assault on the senses bears few traces of Dr. Seuss 's tartly whimsical sensibility but fairly oozes Myers 's brand of smirking humor . 	Filled with double entendres and potty humor , this Cat falls flat .
1077027-batman and robin Both plot and audience attention span stretch to breaking point . [ An ] abhorrent waste of celluloid . A limp , excruciatingly shallow knockoff that leaves viewers cringing at the unavoidable one-liners . The film 's look is all that money can buy , and , as always with blockbuster wannabes like this , it 's a shame that money ca n't buy even more . Pointless , plodding plotting ; asinine action ; clueless , comatose characterization ; and dumb dialogue . If you like 'em busy , this sequel is for you . Wonderful to look at , and has nothing authentic at its core . A mishmash of prolonged , confused action sequences , which are , admittedly , brilliantly staged but do n't make much sense . Of all modern Batmans , George Clooney bears the closest physical resemblance to the comic-book hero , but there is n't much to say about his performance because there is n't much performance to discuss . The fourth Bat-flick finds this juvenile franchise running on empty . 	Joel Schumacher 's tongue-in-cheek attitude hits an unbearable limit in Batman & Robin resulting in a frantic and mindless movie that 's too jokey to care much for .
chef 2014 Ultimately , Chef is a comfort food film . There 's room in this world for all sorts movies , and not all of them have to be challenging . There 's nothing difficult about Chef , but that does n't stop it from being worth the tasting . If `` Chef '' were a musical , you 'd walk out humming the food - and you might end up doing that anyway . The first two thirds of Chef crackle with hunger-inducing imagery and laughter-provoking gags . But the concluding road-movie section is less third act than travelogue . The shapeless story takes way too long to get to Carl 's big moment of change , and the tension in both his professional and personal lives feels forced . There 's an important distinction between food porn and food propaganda , and Chef does n't always know the difference . Still , mostly delightful whenever Favreau is n't making a 5th-grade book report about social media . It 's charming , funny and real . CHEF is perfect counter programming for this overcrowded blockbuster summer . It has lots of smart things to say about social media , criticism and father-son relationships - while also appealing to fans of food porn and mildly raunchy buddy movies . Chef very much deserves to join Big Night and Dinner Rush in the canon of great American food movies . The food , the company and the sparkling conversation give the film an intoxicating feel-good buzz and if it 's all a bit indulgent , Favreau makes no apologies . He revels in it . A film that feeds the heart and soul - and will make you want to feed your face when it is done . In fact , make your dinner reservations for after the movie . Otherwise , you 're just going to end up eating twice . 	Chef 's charming cast and sharp , funny script add enough spice to make this feel-good comedy a flavorful -- if familiar -- treat .
josie and the pussycats There have been too many movies trading on old TV shows for another one to inspire anything but weariness . I 've seen NBA games where the advertising was more discreet . As calculating as the consumer marketing machine it villainizes . The flick has a kind of Spice World movie feel to it , only not nearly as kooky or clever . Assaults us with an unprecedented barrage of product placement and embeds the blatant shilling in the subliminal-brainwashing subplot . A clever consumerist satire that includes well-earned laughs . Boasts a self-referential irreverence that gleefully attacks pop culture by using members of pop culture The sweeping jabs at MTV and its music-biz monolith are n't necessarily original , but they are done well enough that they keep us laughing . The result is a frothy but irresistible movie that brims with bubbly spirit , wicked wit and punk-flavored pop tunes . The silliest , shiniest youth-market product in cinemas so far this year . 	This live-action update of Josie and the Pussycats offers up bubbly , fluffy fun , but the constant appearance of product placements seems rather hypocritical .
munich Daniel Craig echoes the sentiment of soldiers and architects for peace everywhere , `` Let us do our job . '' That 's all Spielberg is doing and he does it better than anyone . Spielberg is at his best in 'Munich , ' demonstrating once again his unique talent for filmic storytelling . Perhaps a tad long-winded , Steven Spielberg 's Munich is a still a well-crafted , superbly acted film ... let 's just say , it 'll get you talking . Spielberg has created yet another masterpiece , risky in scope and ambition , and vitally reflective of the self-destructive times in which we live . Every time one 's interest begins to lag there is a tense or memorably gory scene to pep things up when it 's needed it most . ... riveting stuff ... What a curious arc this movie has described : starting in terror , and ending up on the very brink of kitsch . ... the kind of movie that works on you one way while you 're watching it , then rattles around in your head as you ponder its provocative themes . Spielberg and Kushner do not just show us all sides ; they show Avner and his team all sides , and let the characters and the audience agonize over what they and we have become . Each episode is tense and well-constructed , but , at two hours and forty-five minutes , the film suffers from what might be called Kong syndrome : Even if all the parts are terrific , might the whole not have been better with fewer of them ? 	Steven Spielberg 's examination of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in the aftermath of the Munich assassinations is politically even-handed and cinematically visceral .
breakfast at tiffanys Audrey Hepburn 's finest moment ... and Mickey Rooney 's greatest shame . ... a more ordinary movie than I remembered , with its clunky bits and a story that seems to betray authorial intent . Holly Golightly is not about the conventional American dream of domestic paradise ; she is about the American perquisite of reinvention I could n't imagine any other actress of the time playing the role so well ; it 's as if it were written for [ Hepburn ] . An undeniably romantic tale of damaged goods finding love . Whatever it is , I just do n't see the pizzazz in Holly Golightly 's life . It 's like getting two movies for the price of one % u2013 light romantic comedy and a relatively effective human drama at the same time . It 's with good reason that 40 years after appearing as Holly Golightly , Audrey Hepburn ... is still a poster icon for those aspiring to the kind of classy romance that does n't seem to exist anymore . Adapted from Truman Capote 's novella , it 's a romance like no other , a story of two people -- who 've survived in the big city by selling themselves -- trying to determine the true value of love . A completely unbelievable but wholly captivating flight into fancy composed of unequal dollops of comedy , romance , poignancy , funny colloquialisms and Manhattan 's swankiest East Side areas captured in the loveliest of colors . An unusual love story , glamorous , sophisticated , with more than a touch of the bizarre . 	It contains some ugly anachronisms , but Blake Edwards is at his funniest in this iconic classic , and Audrey Hepburn absolutely lights up the screen .
exiled Johnny To 's direction is as smooth as a well-cut suit and the violence has a balletic intensity . While certainly an entertaining enough romp through the world of bullet-defying tough guys , the movie could use perhaps 10 % more action or 15 % less chit-chat . Ballet-like bloodsport reminiscent of the eye-pleasing , if gratuitous , gore of such over-stimulation mavens as John Woo and Sam Peckinpah . Taut testosterone-sodden titillation , if graphic gunplay 's your pleasure . To is doing exquisite and exciting work at a mind-boggling rate . It 's style over substance to be sure , but damn if it is n't a really cool style . offers no decent characters , crawls along and often does n't make sense - it 's simply a mechanism to deliver a gun battle every 20 minutes . Those shootouts are good , just not good enough to stop you looking at your watch . [ A ] high concept fusion of gunplay and road trip camaraderie . I keep waiting for the bottom to fall out of the Johnnie To Express , but his films just keep getting tauter , more economic , and flat-out better . Stylish tough guy mayhem that looks great but drags its feet going nowhere new . Election still gets the vote for Johnny To 's best film . For anyone bored silly by the formulaic drivel churned out by the studios , Exiled is like a blast of cinematic adrenaline . 	Exiled has non-stop action , tension and style -- making it an excellent summer action movie . Johnnie To brings beautiful scenery and camerawork to the film , enhancing the action even more .
the air i breahe Brendan Fraser is Pleasure , Sarah Michelle Gellar is Sorrow , Kevin Bacon is Love , Forest Whitaker is Happiness , and the director is Pretension . Each story has its moments , but Air lacks an overarching vision . A breathtakingly bad Altman rip-off that seems like a wholly unintentional parody of multi-narrative films . I ca n't fault any of the actors for anything other than bad judgment . Their performances are fine , but a good fortune cookie might have told them to stay away from this . It 's particularly frustrating to watch Whittaker , the strongest thespian of the bunch , desperately mine for gold in a narrative landslide . A perfectly awful example of a certain breed of American indie film that brings together a lot of familiar faces for an ensemble drama about ... nothing . [ Jieho ] does n't know what to do with actors , however , and the film 's impressive ensemble is wasted . Ignore all of that foolishness and watch the collision of emotions The Air I Breathe provides -- it is enough all by itself to leave you breathless . Godliness , so The Air I Breathe finally tells us , is all about the Benjamins . Four unappealing mini-dramas about happiness , pleasure , sorrow , and love . 	The Air I Breathe is a jumbled indie production that accomplishes little save for the squandering of a talented cast .
waynes world 2 Once again , here 's a great comedy for us to enjoy . became more about an excuse to party . Sure , that fits Wayne Campbell 's style , but I was hoping for some more story , even if it was a bit silly It lives on borrowed time , but makes the most of it . Really funny with a must-see Charlton Heston cameo . It was , like , nine lame skits all in one . Not the sensation WWI was , but still fun for Carvey , Myers fans . I actually liked this better than the original . Hysterically funny film . Self-referential though it may be , WW2 is so packed with intelligent and occasionally surreal comic moments , you altogether manage to forget it 's a sequel to a movie that was based on a skit in the first place . Wayne 's World 2 revels in silliness even more than the first movie , but it turns out that 's a good thing as compensation for the otherwise repetitive feel . [ Blu-ray ] This is n't nearly as funny as its predecessor , but still boasts more decent gags per reel than your average comedy follow-up . 	The characters are still endearing , but the jokes in Wayne 's World 2 are more hit-and-miss the second time around .
before midnight 2013 Not only as good as the first two , it 's arguably better , tackling weightier , trickier issues - as in , mature everyday love - with wit , humor and breathtaking directness . The combination of high-level performance and subtle construction , in a picture in which nothing blows up , is actually thrilling . Before Midnight is one of those dialogue-driven indie dramas that make you appreciate the medium of film . With this series , each film deepens the meaning and sensibility of the story so that now , as one whole , they are one of the most romantic stories in the history of film . As witty and charming as ever , with a healthy raw dose of a marriage in trouble The 'walking and talking ' aesthetic of the first two films has settled down a bit here , now more sedentary with age and , ironically , it 's when we first follow the two walking again that the film hits a snag . The trouble with those first two film was their souffle-light scenarios ... Here , however , things are much juicier as infidelity , commitment , divorce , resentment and all the other soul-sapping things that clock in when you hit your 40s come into play . Hawke and Delpy , who co-wrote the screenplay with Linklater , have the sort of rapport that makes you believe they 've loved each other for years . This makes it all the more painful when they start to drift apart . It is a bold work that could come only from a strong trust and faith forged over time between the three collaborators . It 's a study in relationships , and will leave plenty for couples to chat about afterwards ... let 's hope your conversations feel as authentic as the ones in the film . 	Building on the first two installments in Richard Linklater 's well-crafted Before trilogy , Before Midnight offers intelligent , powerfully acted perspectives on love , marriage , and long-term commitment .
international Direction is superb , balancing action , story , character and something valuable to say in a compelling movie that you wish would n't end . And when the end does come , we wish all thrillers could be so genuine and real A stylish but standard thriller centered on an international bank 's malfeasance , The International fails to resonate even on a bank-hating level . Paranoia abounds in this slick but stodgy drama recalling the conspiracy thrillers so beloved of 1970s cinemagoers . Torn from the headlines , Tykwer 's globetrotting thriller is a mixed bag : It benefits from its timely concerns but is not dramatically engaging and suffers in comparison to the Bourne franchise . a relatively engaging , if not terribly convincing , variant on the evil corporation thriller Beautifully shot , often in or against some of the world 's most impressive architecture , The International is far from a total loss . It 's just a film whose good assets do n't pay off in gripping drama . Director Twyker seems much more interested in the architecture of the world capitols the characters chase through than in having anything of much interest happen there . It 's a film that , mad as it sometimes seems , gives you things to chew on . This satisfyingly cynical dig at the world of high finance should please anyone with a taste for paranoid political thrillers . The International scampers all over the place , but it 's alternately frantic and a little slack , with a hole in the middle where some interesting characters ought to be . 	The International boasts some electric action sequences and picturesque locales , but is undone by its preposterous plot .
shark night 3d Enjoyably trashy Jaws/Piranha rip-off , enlivened by likeable performances and some impressive 3D effects , but the plot is laugh-out-loud ridiculous and there 's an oddly prudish approach to gore and nudity . Director David R. Ellis has delivered a heartless , suspense-free 100 minutes of sharks dining out on kids stuck on an island in a Louisiana lake . This limp teens-in-peril fright flick does n't even deserve to swim in the same bloody waters as Piranha 3D ; frankly , there were more genuine jolts in Judy Moody and the NOT Bummer Summer . ... a new movie genre : sharxploitation ... I would say anyone who buys a ticket for a film called 'Shark Night 3D ' will get exactly what they pay for , and these days , that can feel like a bit of a miracle . full review at Movies for the Masses An atrocious waste of time , this `` Night '' is one you 'll quickly forget . The end result is a horror effort that never becomes the guilty pleasure it clearly wants to be ... Look , here 's the short of it : This is pretty dumb movie . Ok it 's a very dumb movie . The acting ? Eh . The plot ? Eh . The sharks eating people in 3D ? Oh , yeah ! 	A joyless excursion into the water that does n't even produce good gore or nudity thanks to the neutered PG-13 rating .
rango It would be unfair , and inaccurate , to call Rango a one-joke movie . There may be two or three ; I did n't count . The first laugh comes with the appearance of a ... Gore Verbinski 's sophisticated , extremely amusing CGI animated movie , a cartoon for adults as opposed to an adult cartoon ... There is never a doubt Rango will succeed by film 's end , but the movie does have its charms . Verbinski has made an animated feature unlike any other on the current mainstream landscape : For a big-budget animated picture , Rango sure is an odd little varmint . I just do n't know if we 'll see a film as smart or fun or overwhelmingly rich as Rango for the rest of the year . Say what you will about 'Rango , ' the computer-animated Western riding hard on Johnny Depp doing the voice of a lizard - just do n't call it business as usual . Channeling spaghetti westerns , Cervantes , Castaneda , and a dash of CHINATOWN as refracted through the visual sensibilities of Dali , it is a fiendishly clever concretion of high- and low-brow in a story that is both vision quest and farce The weirdness of the film is fascinating , but there 's just so damn much of it . `` Rango '' is a highly watchable but somewhat frustrating mix of sloppy plotting , rascally attitude , and Big Action . What elevates it above a cheeky romp is the skilled CGI work , not only the wealth of tactile detail lavished on the parched townsfolk but also the painterly , sand-swept vistas they call home . 	Rango is a smart , giddily creative burst of beautifully animated entertainment , and Johnny Depp gives a colorful vocal performance as a household pet in an unfamiliar world .
united states of leland A serial TV drama squirms and sighs inside U.S. of L . Writer-director Matthew Ryan Hoge strands his cast ... in a sea of emotional paralysis and Afterschool Special moralizing . Leland is absolutely interesting . But it 's never genuinely good , or even all that memorable . Waste of precious art-house space . The drama makes us yearn to discover the reason Leland killed the boy , but the point of the movie is n't to grant us a big revealment . An exasperating film about teen violence and suburban dysfunction that wears its confusion like a badge of honor . Watching it is the equivalent of listening to two hours of whiny , pretentious emo . A melancholy alt-rock soundtrack tells us that wistful regret is the appropriate reaction to almost every scene ... What action there is in this movie takes forever to get going -- or maybe it just seems like forever because all of these characters are so unlikeable and unfathomable , and the dialogue between them is so trite and dumb . A sidetracking subplot about Madison 's adulterous fling with a co-worker goes nowhere ; it is one of several unsatisfying , tertiary plot strands . 	The United States of Leland has its moments , but they 're undermined by a muddled plot , unsympathetic characters , and frustratingly uneven performances .
malibus most wanted The most unfunny and unnecessary film since Jerry Springer In Ringmaster . The current hit Bringing Down The House looks like Citizen Kane , or at least Animal Crackers , in comparison . This cheaply thrown-together farce offers only fitful amusement . B-rad 's rapping is so bad it 's irritating . That part is intentional . The rest of the movie 's irritation just comes naturally . The results range from mildly amusing to excruciating . I laughed during the whole movie ... the trick to stupid comedy is earnestness - these guys have that out the wazoo . Making its 80-minute running length feel long , the movie 's sometimes cute schtick quickly wears thin . There 's one joke in `` Malibu 's Most Wanted . '' One joke , repeated over and over , for ninety minutes . This cinematic territory has been picked clean , especially recently with Bringin ' Down the House and its ilk . As with most movies that start as comic sketches -- much of the Saturday Night Live franchise , for example -- the funny ideas and characters are rarely fleshed out enough to justify 90 minutes . 	There are some laughs , but not enough to sustain the running time .
happy texas Anybody with a soft spot for fakers , who either identifies with them or just admires their chutzpah , is going to get a kick out of Happy , Texas . Happy , Texas is a light , breezy and very amusing comedy . Every bit as cheery as the title implies -- but good will can only go so far . Happy , Texas is a hoot , a hilarious comedy that 's smart and caring , yet sexy and ingenious enough that it just might stir up some of that elusive Full Monty-style box-office appeal . Steve Zahn shines in Illsley 's feature debut , elevating this eccentric small-town comedy two notches above the level of writing . Using the fish out of water format , this Sundance premiere begins well but then declines rapidly . The set-up is so strong that it 's impressive to see it progress so effortlessly . ... a wellspring of sweet , effervescent humor that reminds us that comedies do n't have to be all about fart jokes and bathroom humor . Full of bumbling schemes , sexual deception and mistaken identities , the film occasionally lets some hambone moments creep in , but Zahn and the amazing Macy as the town 's oddly secretive sheriff are the icing on this zany cake . Happy , Texas is an inspired comedy/love story . A joyous entertainment , tinged with an appealing innocence both singular and welcome in contemporary American film . 	A smart , light-hearted romantic comedy , Happy , Texas uses its well-written script and exceptional cast to prove there 's still life left in the fish-out-of-water caper genre .
king of devils island 2011 An old-fashioned drama about the will of good young men triumphing over the weakness of evil old ones . We 've seen it before , but when it 's done this well that does n't seem to matter . It 's a very measured account of how men will accept their fates to a degree , slowly coil up and then spring with anger . Terse and atmospheric Norwegian historical drama about an isolated home for troubled boys is effectively brooding but too formulaic when it comes to character . Based on a true story , there is a dramatic force here , even if the whole is a trifle long and repetitive . This may be a familiar tale - rough-around-the edges dissenter against a barbaric system - but it 's well told and the icy wastes of the island provide a chilling backdrop to the cruelty dealt out to the boys . Honest and authentic , the filmmaker takes his subject seriously and gives us a complex and thought provoking film For the first half , the pacing is slow and unfocused ; the second half is more engrossing but still entirely predictable . Possibly no one else does `` grim '' with as much unsparing enthusiasm as the Scandinavians . A slow-burning but satisfying drama that persuasively blends elements of Scum and Papillon . The film plays well , and is involving , but in one form or another , this is a story often told . 	Scandinavian in the most bleakly satisfying way , King of Devil 's Island satisfies with a richly layered narrative and a typically strong performance from Stellan Skarsgard .
love and mercy In succinct and sublime tones , Love & Mercy convinces that God only knows where American music would be without Brian Wilson . It 's as much an auditory narrative as a visual one , which makes perfect sense . `` Love & Mercy '' will attract Beach Boys fans for sure , but director Pohlad has created a work that will appeal to a much broader audience - like , anyone who loves music . [ Hews close ] to the bone of Wilson 's life . Something different and exciting happens on the screen , thanks to an off-kilter story structure , a worthy subject and inspired performances . After seeing `` Love & Mercy , '' you 'll find it nearly impossible to resist the urge to download ( or re-listen to ) a dozen Beach Boys classics . It 's an eloquent tribute to a great American innovator . It gives us Brian Wilson as a tortured genius , which may be true , but also reduces pretty much everyone else onscreen to a stereotype or a cipher . There is undoubtedly much more to be said about the intriguing , talented Brian Wilson , but `` Love & Mercy '' does one better than a conventional biography of the man likely ever could : it bears his soul . Unconventional but fully fleshed-out and adoring ( but not too adoring ) portrait of brilliant Beach Boys leader Brian Wilson and his personal ups and downs . 	As unconventional and unwieldy as the life and legacy it honors , Love & Mercy should prove moving for Brian Wilson fans while still satisfying neophytes .
bourne supremacy Yet another of the all reason-defying examples of sequels that are as good as if not better than their earlier films . Do n't let this slip by you . [ Director ] Greengrass proves himself equally adept at action , building on the edginess of Doug Liman 's original with a feverish handheld camera and frenetic editing . Of its kind , The Bourne Supremacy is incredibly skilled -- much more exciting than its predecessor . By the end I felt someone had put my brain in a blender . a cut above your average fantasy world espionage thriller . By the end of the film , we 've more or less given up trying to figure out how the characters are making their deductions ; we just have to take it on faith that somehow everyone knows to go to a specific address in Moscow . Eye-rattling visual chaos that many moviegoers will want to rate X , for Excedrin . So oppressively identified with its predecessor 's look , sound , and design that Doug Liman warrants a co-director credit . You ca n't put a price on a film-maker who still believes stunts should be shot in the street and not the editing suite 	A well-maded sequel that delivers the thrills .
santa clause Allen 's foray into the real world after his transformation begins is the funniest part of the movie . This is the most playfully amusing , inventive new cinematic Christmas fable in several decades . The jokes are mostly funny , the divorced parents stay happily divorced , and we 're treated to yet another earnestly dopey performance by the endearing Judge Reinhold . [ Director ] John Pasquin brings to it a heavy-handedness more appropriate to the subject matter of , say , his telefilm Do n't Touch My Daughter . Like most modern fantasies , The Santa Clause is n't very clear about the rules governing Scott 's new powers . Despite its charms , the movie did n't push over the top into true inspiration . Heartwarming family tale for both kids and adults . You can get the same emotional and imaginative kick staying home and rereading your Christmas cards . Balances the sugar with the spice , which Allen sprinkles on just right . Home Improvement fans will find plenty of laughs and may even consent to going to this movie with their little brothers and sisters . 	The Santa Clause is utterly undemanding , but it 's firmly rooted in the sort of good old-fashioned holiday spirit missing from too many modern yuletide films .
winnie the pooh 2011 Light , sweet and gooey , just like hunny -- er , honey . If it 's wrong to vastly enjoy a warm movie about simple pleasures such as food , friends and teamwork , then I do n't want to be right . Adult filmgoers without towheads in tow may `` pooh-pooh '' this delightful , no-frills adaptation , but kids will have a wonderful time . This sweet , low-key , and utterly lovable movie reminds us that `` fun for all ages '' is n't just a marketing come-on . Winnie the Pooh revives the charm of the original Walt Disney franchise by returning to the source -- the A.A. Milne books about Christopher Robin and his stuffed animals as they learn life lessons amidst their adventures . The innocence and simplicity of Winnie the Pooh is refreshing in an era of star-powered , smart-mouthed animated spectacles . Recalls the beguiling lightness of the good old Disney , where clever visual and thematic feats are deftly interwoven and yet tossed off with an insouciance that favors playfulness above all . Rather than a mind-blowing movie experience , `` Pooh '' is a cinematic snuggle . Despite some superb songs and some impressive animation , this is ultimately disappointing , thanks to a general dumbing down of the characters , irritating voice work and a script that 's guaranteed to annoy Pooh purists . Although this is an adaptation of the A.A. Milne tales first published in 1926 , it unleashes an essential quality of dreaming -- and of cinema . Lovable and sweet - it 's delightful to spend time again with that silly old bear . 	Short , nostalgic , and gently whimsical , Winnie the Pooh offers young audiences -- and their parents -- a sweetly traditional family treat .
1006037-doctor zhivago Laborious , but beautifully crafted 193 minute opus from the master of epic cinema , David Lean . Lean 's last great film . Lean 's mastery of the epic form makes up for a weak central love story Often the dialogue is nearly as rich as the costumes and settings . As always , Lean 's handling of the purely physical aspects of the material is spectacular . When the bland epics of Sir Richard Attenborough and Roland Joffe are long forgotten , people will still be watching David Lean 's work . The movie is something that should be experienced by everyone at least once in a lifetime . ... a passionate movie about passionate people in passionate times . Plays as a sweeping , episodic tale set against the backdrop of World War I and the Russian Revolution , with some of the most stunning vistas ever captured on film . Steiger and Courtenay excepted , all the performances are very uncomfortable . 	It may not be the best of David Lean 's epics , but Dr. Zhivago is still brilliantly photographed and sweepingly romantic .
french connection The film won five Academy Awards and set a new standard for action with its thrilling car chases . When people talk about the Golden Age of movies in the 1970s , this is one of the ones that they 're talking about . Four decades after its initial release , William Friedkin 's Oscar-sweeper The French Connection remains an electrifying achievement . This 1971 thriller about a heroin bust is solid , slick filmmaking , full of dirty cops , shrewd operators , and slam-bang action . Fast-paced urban crime thriller that catches the authentic flavor of the NYC locations . Cop drama with heft Hackman is dangerous , charismatic ; the chase scene is timeless ; a marvelous urban drama , not to be missed . ... tough , edgy , exciting , profane , and explosive , although its R rating seems a little extreme by today 's standards . A good film , but not as great as some remember it to be . It 's hard to imagine it now , but there are only two types of cop movie : pre and post-The French Connection . That 's how big it is . 	Realistic , fast-paced and uncommonly smart , The French Connection is bolstered by stellar performances by Gene Hackman and Roy Scheider , not to mention William Friedkin 's thrilling production .
mystery science theater 3000 the movie A bad idea for a TV show becomes a worse idea for a movie . It 's a fun enough way to pass the time . And fans of the TV version of MST3K certainly wo n't be disappointed . But it would be just as much -- if not more -- fun watching it in your own living room with a bunch of rowdy pals . One of the film 's more likable aspects is its certainty that nothing 's sacred . You still feel that every delirious allusion , every snidely on-the-mark observational quip , is tickling a different part of your cerebral cortex . Yet the movie lacks the manic highs of the show 's best episodes . The translation is a little bumpy , but this is Mystery Science Theater we 're talking about here : even a less concentrated effort is guaranteed to be a pants-wetting night of endless laughs and infectious bad movie grimacing . In the trip from small screen to big , virtually all of what made the show so smart and funny has emerged unscathed . I guess there are some concepts that do n't excel in the translation from the small screen to the big one . There are still enough bad makeup jobs , pretentious lines , and coy sexual situations to give the chattering puppets plenty of fodder . It 's fun for the entire family . And one more thing . Push the button , Frank . The TV show might be funnier but this is pretty solid introduction to the MST3K phenomenon . 	Mystery Science Theater 3000 : The Movie may be thin and uneven , but it 's hilarious in enough of the right spots to do the show 's big-screen transition justice .
1020130-sting The film is so good-natured , so obviously aware of everything it 's up to , even its own picturesque frauds , that I opt to go along with it . As for Newman and Redford , they have developed a form of instant communication . Words are not as important as they way they look at each other . Call it as snow job or call it acting , it is very pleasing to watch . Newman and Redford pass a few facial expressions between them and try to cool each other out . If there ever was much of a script , it can be said to have gone to waste . The sting itself is as audacious as it is elaborate , but the real pleasure comes from the chemistry between the two leads , the lovingly created 1930s settings and Marvin Hamlisch 's inspired reworking of Scott Joplin 's music . In all , it 's one of the year 's funniest . The Sting remains the definitive con artist comedy : as irresistible and ingenious as the scheme that hooks in Doyle . Styrofoam . This is just about as perfect as movies come . The film ends up relying on different chapter headings to explain what 's going on , but it 's all very professional , with fine attention to period detail . Often imitated , very seldom approximated . 	Paul Newman , Robert Redford , and director George Roy Hill prove that charm , humor , and a few slick twists can add up to a great film .
scream 2 I still got a kick out of Scream 2 , and I 'm curious to see what Williamson has concocted for the last film of the trilogy . While the shocks come thick and fast , the real pleasure comes from the knowing humour and ingenious spoofing of genre tropes . I enjoyed Scream 2 . Scarier and funnier than the original . Scream 2 is n't nearly as fresh , suspenseful or witty as it 's inaugural bloodfest . There 's enough ingenuity and scariness to please plenty of fans of the first film . The real fun of Scream 2 , like Scream , is n't seeing people slaughtered . It 's the smart-mouth dialogue and in-joke ironies . Old-hand Craven delivers a delectably gruesome , well-crafted horror yarn that is crisply edited , inventively photographed and devilishly cast . This disappointing sequel to last year 's horror sleeper gets trapped in the clichs it 's trying to send up . The rest of the cast of disposable archetypes deadpanned about why ''sequels suck '' -- a particularly funny joke , since this one did n't . 	As with the first film , Scream 2 is a gleeful takedown of scary movie conventions that manages to poke fun at terrible horror sequels without falling victim to the same fate .
1001902-beauty and the beast There are deep undercurrents to the film , suggesting a dark , horrible and wonderful secret that might be glimpsed if only the viewer stares hard enough . Lovely . This film is such a visual delight that I gave up worrying about ideological considerations and just embraced its beautiful and influential dreamlike imagery . It sets the benchmark in elegance for such fantasy films . A sublime , sumptuous film directed by Jean Cocteau with the help of Rene Clement . Jean Cocteau 's frighteningly beautiful surrealist take on the classic story is a potent antidote if Disney 's given you one swig too many of the sweet stuff . Unduly slow pace and repetitious use of trick sets hurts chances of this film . Josette Day and Marais are perfect in their roles , making this one of Cocteau 's best films . By conjuring up ... fairy-tale trappings , then aiming it all at adults , Beauty and the Beast reminds us that motion pictures can tap into our childlike fears and pleasures without becoming childish in the process . Take a child to see this film and he or she will remember it forever . 	With its magical optical effects and enchanting performances , Jean Cocteau 's Beauty and the Beast remains the most surreal -- and soulful -- of the fairy tale 's film adaptations .
big hero 6 The screenplay is smart enough to be considered adult-friendly . This is n't `` classic Disney '' but it 's an experience parents and children can enjoy together in the dark , and sometimes that 's all one can ask of a big-budget animated film . Big Hero 6 is a playful movie that stands out from other Disney fare due to its willingness to indulge in some offbeat comedic turns . Pow , pow , kaboom , cuddle . ... The artistry of state-of-the-art commercial digital animation has become a foregone conclusion . Then again , it 's a kids ' film , and that audience will enjoy it . More Pixar than Disney and gloriously so . Seems tailor-made for a likable yet forgettable animated TV series . Big Hero 6 is nothing if not fun , a fast-paced fanboy fable that benefits greatly from a Pixar-informed blend of artistry and humor . For all its impeccable craft , it 's unusually flavorless . Phase 1 of the Marvel Toons era is off to a very promising start . The central appeal of the movie is its masterful visuals . It presents every image as a vibrant , complex , gorgeously lit phenomenon , handsomer than anything seen in daily life . 	Agreeably entertaining and brilliantly animated , Big Hero 6 is briskly-paced , action-packed , and often touching .
stories we tell Both of Sarah Polley 's previous movies were well-observed , if a bit uneven , but they hold the key to what makes `` Stories We Tell '' so terrific . Slowly but surely Polley pieces together her own family 's history to create a kind of cinematic narrative - complete with a twist straight from a soap opera . Even calling ''Stories We Tell '' a documentary seems rather limiting and not entirely accurate ; it 's also a deadpan comedy , a juicy melodrama and a gripping mystery , all cleverly blended together with great focus . A bittersweet and compelling autobiographical family portrait . Takes the proposition that reality is more dramatic than fiction and tests it out in a startlingly original , even head-spinning way . Polley ... smilingly tells us that a story like hers can never truly be tied down , even as she screws every last piece into place . The films greatest achievement is in how deeply mesmerising one woman 's story can be , regardless of whether she 's famous or not . Post-post-modern . Yeah , that 's right , the negation of the negation . Do n't be fooled by its deceptively simple title or the hesitant , unassuming way it begins . Writer-director Sarah Polley 's `` Stories We Tell '' ends up an invigorating powerhouse of a personal documentary , adventurous and absolutely fascinating . Honestly , it 's one of the best things you 'll see this year . 	In Stories We Tell , Sarah Polley plays with the documentary format to explore the nature of memory and storytelling , crafting a thoughtful , compelling narrative that unfolds like a mystery .
legend of the guardians ... there is no denying those pretty pictures , and they go a long way toward making the movie watchable . Children with a particular affection for epic tales , no matter how derivative or cacophonous , will probably enjoy Legend of the Guardians . Spectacular animation and a terrific voice cast go a long way to making this soaring adventure feel much more original than it is . After the frightened kids run screeching from the theater , adults may wonder what this vicious flick was trying to teach us . But as a guardian of unhatched spirits , I say : Hoo-hoo-hoo cares ? It 's tough-minded and anything but happy . A curiously humourless affair that never really takes flight . Ms all de algunos logros visuales , la historia no ofrece nada que ya no se haya visto antes , con la contra de que , esta vez , falt emocin y conviccin dramtica . 'Legend of the Guardians : The Owls of Ga'Hoole ' is just as suited to fans of Harry Potter as it is to older children who will want to enjoy this fantasy adventure . Trust your gizzard , sharpen your battle claws and be transported into the magical and spectacular world of owls . The 3D visuals are breathtaking as are the details imbued in this robust fantasy adventure [ T ] he complete lack of a sense of place or of character ... and absolutely no genuine emotional content whatsoever makes this an experience beyond empty ... 	Legend of the Guardians ' dark tone and dazzling visuals are to be admired , even if they 're ultimately let down by a story that never lives up to its full potential .
conan the barbarian 2011 Treats story and character as so many enemies to be vanquished . It 's just another ham-handed adventure flick in eye-deadening , wallet-draining 3-D . This Conan barely qualifies as a character , smirking and hacking his way through life , never evolving into someone who can change or whom you want to follow . Shoddy acting , no real plot , and silly dialogue ? You betcha ! Both truer to the vision of its character 's creator , Robert E. Howard , and more satisfyingly pulpy than the 1982 movie incarnation . The brutality is enervating , unrelieved by the slightest notion of humour . The fantasy castles are painted in with computers , and the battles are shot in widescreen close-up , the worst possible combination . Missing the myth , the sorcery and the humor of the original big screen `` Conan . '' Without any thought given to characterization , plot or coherent staging , Conan is , with few exceptions , a complete disappointment . It 's not a legit pulp movie . It 's not a legit genre movie . It 's not even a guilty pleasure . Upfront . The new Conan the Barbarian , Jason Momoa is a better actor than Arnold Schwarzenegger . It 's a relative statement . He 's still terrible . 	While its relentless , gory violence is more faithful to the Robert E. Howard books , Conan the Barbarian forsakes three-dimensional characters , dialogue , and acting in favor of unnecessary 3D effects .
born to be wild 2011 Born to be Wild is both grand spectacle and intimate tale . Parents should be prepared to dish out some of life 's tougher realities on the drive home , when the `` Daddy , what 's a poacher ? '' questions will invariably arise . Invites you on a thrilling IMAX 3D cinematic safari to wildlife 'orphanages ' in Kenya and Borneo , where baby elephants and orangutans are nurtured and trained to return to the wild . Does a remarkable job of putting the viewer right with elephants in the Kenyan savannah and orangutans in the lush jungles of Borneo . This may make me sound like less of a man , but I 'm going to say it anyway : Born to Be Wild is by far the most adorable movie I 've seen in the theater in a long time . The hip soundtrack adds momentum , and the reassuring narration of Morgan Freeman lets us know these lucky orphans will have a fighting chance for survival after taking their first steps -- or swings -- back into the wild . The film is short - clocking in at just under 45 minutes - but it is long on compassion . Incredibly moving . Even if you do n't have a three-story screen in your home , the film still works marvelously . Incredible and inspiring , educational and endearing It 's entertaining , poignant , educational ( at least for kids ) , inspirational , and certainly beautiful to look at . 	The human story of Born To Be Wild is captivating and the accompanying nature footage is utterly cute and charming .
glitter If Glitter were just a little worse , it might be a lot better . Or a least much more fun . Hilariously inept showcase . have risen above screenwriter Kate Lanier 's mundane show-biz saga . About as fresh as rancid Chinese food that has been stuck in the back of the refrigerator for several months . Total escapism without a shred of believability . Just when you think it could not get more ridiculous , Hall , Lanier , and Miss Mariah go that extra mile . If poor Mariah Carey suffered a well-publicized breakdown prior to the release of this disposable display , imagine what she 'll feel like to learn that she may have appeared in one of the worst ill-advised pointless flicks of the year . It 's so badly botched that it 's entertaining ... for all the wrong reasons . Fueled by formula , riddled with cliches , mindless from beginning to end . Mariah Carey should have taken an acting class from Marky Mark Wahlberg . The first lesson : start small . 	Glitter is a hodgepodge of movie cliches and bad acting that 's sure to generate unintentional laughs . Unfortunately , the movie is not bad enough to be good .
eurotrip Eurotrip is the first theatrical adaptation of a pop-up fetish ad on the internet and there 's no spam filter to block it out The movie misses most of what is truly funny and compelling about the universal Western European adventure . It 's not even as funny as National Lampoon 's European Vacation , the worst of the four Chevy Chase films . Maybe there really are people out there who just ca n't get enough of the kind of joke where the punch line is that a character is gay . Or the pope . manages to be that oddly rare quantity : the actually enjoyable stupid comedy . [ A ] pedestrian teen-sex travelogue . Eurotrip does n't try to reinvent the sex comedy wheel . It simply wants to shock you into hysterics , and more often than not , it sublimely succeeds . A rude , raunchy teen comedy done right . 'Eurotrash ' is more like it -- even the opening animated credits are repulsive . If you must see Eurotrip , I suggest a vast intake of alcohol beforehand . It wo n't make it funnier , but if you 're drunk enough , you might forget you ever saw it . 	A trip worth taking if one 's not offended by gratuitous nudity and bad taste .
ronin Clunky and contrived ! I enjoyed the film on two levels : for its skill and its silliness . More fruitful by far to take the auteurist view and say that for Frankenheimer , Ronin is surrender . But despite some attempts to make this a deeper than usual actioner , Frankenheimer 's film is just your typical actioner . Ronin plays like death warmed over ! Ronin reps a pleasurable throwback to the sort of gritty , low-tech international thriller that was a staple of the 1960s . Depicts the amoral world of masterless warriors whose lives are filled with unending violence and betrayal . Whatever the film lacks in coherence it makes up for in spectacular car chases . Riveting , fast-paced ! It is a tribute to the film 's earnestness that we are able to overlook most of its absurdities and simply revel in its deeds . 	This is comparable to French Connection with great action , dynamic road chase scenes , and solid performances .
of time and the city If I seem overly harsh towards a film that I 'm essentially recommending , it 's only because I expect more from the director . Terence Davies , England 's greatest living filmmaker , has released only six features , and this one is his first documentary , a mesmerizing and eloquent essay about his native Liverpool . But it 's a sham , a risible and almost militantly superficial piece of regional PR that exposes the snobbish and flimsy foundations on which Davies 's bewilderingly inflated reputation rests . Of Time And The City is a caustic , witty , regretful elegy for a place so transformed that it 's virtually unrecognizable . Of Time and the City is a difficult film to describe but a distinct pleasure to experience . Quite simply one of the most beautiful films I 've ever seen . Of Time and the City never less than throbs with emotion , a reminder of what a loss Davies 's absence from the screen has been . ... a filmic ode to Liverpool that is both elegiac and cantankerous in the way of all old men looking back . Part-scrapbook , part- confessional , Davies 's odyssey through his past is garlanded with irreverent aphorisms . This is a film to be cherished . It fails to turn its assemblage of stock footage and sarcastic observation into the grand summation of a place and era it would love to be . 	Terrence Davies ' heartfelt , sometimes funny new feature documentary is part scrapbook , part confessional .
far from heaven A beautiful and deeply affecting film that turns back society 's clock with astonishing results . Technically , `` Far From Heaven '' may be the best film of the year . That Haynes can both maintain and dismantle the facades that his genre and his character construct is a wonderous accomplishment of veracity and narrative grace . One of the most elegant films of the year . Innumerable moments of pure genius Nostalgia is often fun , seldom accurate , and rarely done cinematically as well as it is here . Lejos del paraso es al mismo tiempo una fiesta para los ojos y odos y un movilizador cuadro de personajes enfrentados a sus propios deseos , miedos y prejuicios . With tact and care , the movie digs into all the subjects that lay concealed below the surface when Max Ophuls and Douglas Sirk were filming their own melodramas in the nineteen-fifties . Far from Heaven may not be the most spontaneous film you 'll see this year . But in its own dippy way , it 's bound to be one of the most heartfelt . [ Haynes ' ] discomfiting ability to get under the puritanical skin of the US is hampered here by the confines of imitative homage . 	An exquisitely designed and performed melodrama , Far From Heaven earns its viewers ' tears with sincerity and intelligence .
william shakespeares romeo and juliet A stunning display of cinematic interpretation of The Bard 's famous play . Luhrmann bombards us with startling images , audacious camera tricks and breathtaking action ... [ in order to recreate ] the overwhelming experience of adolescent love . So overloud and overdirected and overproduced and so energetic that finally , you ca n't do anything except smile at it . An amazing feat of ambition and imagination . Tries so hard to be hip that it loses the soul of the story . A slick blast of ''decadence , '' the kind of violent swank-trash music video that may make you feel like reaching for the remote control . DiCaprio as Romeo is brilliant , as is Danes . A comic book shot at selling Shakespeare to Generation X . Luhrmann 's gleefully cinematic version of the play is so relentlessly inventive and innovative , it takes 20 minutes to get a grasp on how appropriate is his approach to the material . Iirreverence is a higher form of respect . Like the beachside proscenium in Verona City , Luhrmann 's art frames the sea of Shakespeare 's genius . 	Baz Luhrmann 's visual aesthetic is as divisive as it is fresh and inventive .
sudden impact Probably Sondra Locke 's best performance . Freudian 's could have a field day examining the obsession that Harry has with the size of his weaponry in this flaccid police thriller Harry starts to parody himself with this one . Same bag of tricks , but fans will like a look all the same Boy did Ronald Reagan love this movie ! Not as strong as the first three Dirty Harry movies , but this fourth one has enough classic Harry Callahan moments to make it a worthy addition to the series . ... stretches the believability factor to the limit , with a story that is all over the map . This is the first entry in the series to have been directed by Eastwood himself , and action is put over with great force , if also with some obviousness . At times like a traffic jam of different stories and characters crossing paths back and forth for almost two hours , and there is n't too much tension to go with it . The worst of the Dirty Harry films , made even more excruciating by Sondra Locke 's presence . Fans of the series will find several worthwhile moments , however . 	Sudden Impact delivers all the firepower -- and the most enduring catchphrase -- fans associate with the Dirty Harry franchise , but it 's far from the best film in the series .
madagascar escape 2 africa Whatever else I felt about the movie , this is good animation . The colours are extraordinary , the backgrounds stunning . The characters seem better developed this time and the story lines are stronger . [ Sua ] irreverncia s ( surge ) realmente quando os personagens secundrios seqestram a histria . den eihe kamia idiaiteri istoria na proekteinei , oyte apaitiseis kanenos fan base na ikanopoiisei , opote logika , den prospathei na kanei tipote ap ' ta dyo Among the Looney Tuniest of recent computer-animated features -- the anatomy-distorting slapstick , wacky wordplay and surreal throwaway gags are nonstop . There 's amusement in this jungle jumble but `` Happy Feet '' left me happier . The animation is as breathtakingly beautiful as before and if anything , the sequel is funnier and sharper than the original thanks to a witty screenplay . The pop culture references , the dance numbers and the in-jokes we enjoyed in the first film are here for parents and kids alike , as is the irreverent humour . Punches its key themes of friendship , togetherness and family amid a hyperactive swirl of jokes , musical numbers and physical gags . Does n't mess with a good thing . That means many prankish penguins , loony lemurs and that `` move it , move it '' song , all over again . 	Madagascar : Escape 2 Africa is an improvement on the original , with more fleshed-out characters , crisper animation and more consistent humor .
butterfly effect Ouch . Ouch . Ouch . So very bad . An ambitious , thoughtful and challenging film with layers of serious ideas . A ludicrous supernatural thriller , packed with clichs , heavy-handed symbolism , stupid dialogue and over-acting . Full of interesting ideas but suffers from an unevenness of tone and from a smothering , unpleasant atmosphere that often makes watching it a chore . Chaos theory is true after all : Ashton Kutcher flaps his mouth at Demi 's Idaho ranch and bad movies happen here . I wanted `` The Butterfly Effect '' to end long before the completion of its near two-hour run time . Style takes precedence over substance , special effects over smart scripting , and jumpy scares over solid theatrics . It 's one of the most unpleasant Hollywood films in some time . A film of singularly boneheaded conceits , Butterfly is populated by , and appears to have been made by , stoned college dudes more hung up on oh-wow twists than the need to make sense . Unfortunately , Kutcher has yet to make Ashton Kutcher Dates Demi Moore : The Movie , so his endless Us Weekly coverage has n't translated into quality filmmaking . 	The premise is intriguing , but it 's placed in the service of an overwrought and tasteless thriller .
citizen kane Citizen Kane is the biggest cinematic landmark since pictures first started moving . The greatest film of all time now has a DVD to match . Perhaps when the uproar has died down it will be discovered that the film is not quite so good as it is considered now , but nevertheless Hollywood will for a long time be in debt to Mr. Welles . Welles has found the screen as effective for his unique showmanship as radio and the theatre . Fifty years after its release , Citizen Kane still seems richer , bolder , more spectacularly alive than any other film of the studio-system era . Regardless of how many times you 've seen Orson Welles ' 1941 masterpiece , it always feels like the first time . Truly one of the greatest films ever . It is , as a critical benchmark , unavoidable . Welles not only inspired the bright young men with whom he collaborated , he shamed the Hollywood hacks into a realization of just how deeply they had betrayed their talent . A cinematic phantasmagoria , this film is a movie lover 's wet dream . A cinematic perfect storm of technique and sophistication , widely hailed as the apotheosis of all the innovations and advancements of the sound era . 	Orson Welles 's epic tale of a publishing tycoon 's rise and fall is entertaining , poignant , and inventive in its storytelling , earning its reputation as a landmark achievement in film .
nobody knows A meditation on solace and the promise and beauty familial togetherness . Photographed in static shots that never cast judgement , the child actors have a naturalism that makes familiarity emotionally charged . ... profoundly moving and bittersweet Nobody Knows constructs two parallel universes : A realistic world of everyday activities , set apart from a more subjective world of fantasy and imagination . Hypnotic movie . While the harsh consequences are unmerciful , it is the stamp of stark truth that makes it compelling . A harrowing , tender film . Original , powerful and ultimately unforgettable I found this overly long film only modestly enjoyable and a possible candidate for my most overrated films of the year list . I found it an ordeal in spite of the children 's otherwise fine , often heart-wrenching performances . 	Tragic and haunting , a beautifully heart-wrenching portrait of child abandonment .
gainsbourg a heroic life Both evocative and faithful in its depiction of the famed French singer 's lascivious life , Gainsbourg ( vie heroique ) offers up a feast of memorable chansons and an almost endless parade of drop-dead-gorgeous muses . There 's a bold splash of the surreal in this inspired portrait of a man whose life really is too big for one film . Overall , the film makes a common mistake : it tells what happened to Gainsbourg , but not who he really was . A few shots of full frontal and an actual devil to point to are poor substitutes for exposure and depth of character . Je t'aime Gainsbourg ! A sloggy fantasia about Gainsbourg 's life featuring such oddities as a giant , hook-nosed puppet that acts as the singer 's alter ego , as well as a parade of showy sequences involving grand Gainsbourg amours Brigitte Bardot and Jane Birkin . If only all biopics were as entertaining as this ... The music and cast really drive Sfar 's debut in a way that will make you immediately want to learn more about Gainsbourg . Eric Elmosnino is terrific as the louche French icon in Joann Sfar 's vivid biopic . Shame about that second hour . As a musical mischief maker who exuded endless existential ennui , Serge 's complexity is just too ungainly for any one biopic - but G : AHL is great starter kit . 	It might be thinly written and messily made , but Gainsbourg : A Heroic Life is also appropriately glamorous and intense -- and powerfully led by a gripping performance from Erik Elmosnino .
holes For all its faults , Holes has an overriding good humor and sense of fun that saves it from the usual drudge of children 's pictures . Holes is great storytelling and great stories are what make for superb entertainment . Credit Davis with caring about preserving the book 's fiber . I wish he 'd been able to find a style of his own to match . A dense yarn with a range of humor , imagination and emotions as wide as the desert floor upon which it is set . Young viewers and old alike will be given powerful metaphors of servanthood and selflessness , humility and honor , courage and Christ-like kindness . The acting is superb and the story is delightful . There 's no denying how terrific the performances are by the film 's cast , especially Shia LaBeouf . Smart , funny , cynical and genuinely touching . Sachar 's screenplay deftly weaves together several different storylines unfolding simultaneously in different eras ( do n't worry , kids : Virginia Woolf does n't figure into any of them ) ... A wonderfully dark fairy tale . 	Faithful to its literary source , this is imaginative , intelligent family entertainment .
1007517-flash gordon There 's plenty of colourful fun and an awful lot of men in tights . Do n't listen to its pofaced detractors -- for sheer cinema fun , Flash Gordon ca n't be beaten . a great camp classic One of the great `` bad '' movies of the decade . Laughably bad and fantastically good all at once , this is a guilty pleasure that everyone can enjoy . Taken solely as a pop wedge of cheese , it 's beautifully realized . As for the empty-headed dialogue and the puerile plot , is n't it obvious those are both part of the point ? A soundtrack by Queen is one of the highlights of this film actualization of the comic strip . The crazy set design and costumes are also dead-on replicas of the strip . Camped up and wrong headed in the extreme . The narrative is a little plodding , but adult punters will soon slip back into areverie for the lost visions of Saturday morning cinema . a total bomb ; an insult to the original serials ; not even good camp . If you feel like camping it up , then rent this one . 	Campy charm and a knowing sense of humor help to overcome a silly plot involving a spacefaring ex-football player , his adoring bevy of groupies , and a supervillain named Ming the Merciless .
fear and loathing in las vegas Visually incredible and blessed with great performances from Depp and Del Toro , this is destined for cult classic status - but the plot and symbolism are less impressive . It is Gilliam fastening his lance to a Chevrolet convertible and charging at the windmills with his foot to the floor Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas is impeded by both familiarity with its source and esteem for its director . However , the Criterion DVD has a tremendous asset in the collaboration of Hunter Thompson , who appears repeatedly in the disc 's supplements . It may start off as a lighthearted , excess-filled , party-road-trip movie , but Depp is reigned in a little towards the end as his character ( a stand-in for Thompson ) poetically bemoans the sad failure of the late-60s ideals and values . It 's larger-than life , wild , dizzy , colourful and vulgar , and goes round in circles - for a very long time . A beautiful cinematic showcase for Thompson at the peak of his writing skills . The movie is clearly intriguing in ways it may not have intended . What the movie lacks in plot it makes up for in irony . Unlike Trainspotting , Fear and Loathing does n't shock or fascinate . It simply disgusts and repels . Gilliam shows that there is something appealing about drug highs . It would n't be honest to say otherwise . And , yes , they 'll destroy you . It 's honest about that too . 	Visually creative , but also aimless , repetitve , and devoid of character development .
made of honor Made of Honor is a nice cookie-cutter comedy , no more and no less , but Dempsey , with his relaxed charm , and Monaghan , with her soft and peachy sensual spark , rise to the challenge of making friendship look like the wellspring of true love . A film to leave at the altar . The cinematic equivalent of the Bush administration . The plot becomes very familiar -- not just like My Best Friend 's Wedding , but like a mishmash of every romantic comedy ever written . The romantic comedy Made of Honor adds tart satirical flavors to a cotton-candy formula without sabotaging the sugar rush . An amusing , smartly cast romantic comedy told from a guy 's perspective . Director Paul Weiland and the film 's screenwriters offer standard sitcom setups and forgettable supporting characters , in effect hanging the whole picture on Dempsey . This is an enjoyable romcom enlivened by strong performances from Dempsey and Monaghan . Another dreary and predictable romantic comedy centered around a wedding . Exaggerating the genre cliches is a joke the audience can share ; deriding their belief in romance , the genre 's sacred trust , is not . 	Sharp performances by Patrick Dempsey and Michelle Monaghan ca n't save this forgettable , formulaic chick flick from its comic failings .
gi joe the rise of cobra Just put yourself in the mind-set of a ten-year-old boy watching this on a Saturday morning with a big bowl of frosted flakes in front of you . But do n't expect anything more . The only collateral damage is in the audience , where , as you sit through the movie , you can feel your IQ drop minute by minute . I was more excited by last week 's G-Force 3-D , if only because the guinea pigs give the better performances . The tongue-in-cheek action film they 've inspired aims for 'so bad it 's good ' cheesiness , but just ends up being -- well , bad . I do n't mind if something blows up every five minutes so long as I 'm given a reason to care why something is blowing up every five minutes . Sure , big dumb fun can be big dumb fun , but Sommers goes beyond the `` more is more '' modus operandi and launches into `` too much is never enough '' territory . Not that the characters matter , because the screenwriters and director Stephen Sommers are determined to mainly deliver one high-octane , heavily CGI-laden action set piece after another , to ultimately deadening effect . If the marketing suits at Paramount Pictures need a catchy slogan , might I suggest , 'G.I . Joe - hey , at least it 's not Transformers . ' The pile-up of effects is like watching someone else playing videogames ; neat moves , but where 's the fun ? So , now you know , G.I . Joe : The Rise of Cobra is about as uncomfortable to sit through as running in a marathon with a bad case of the trots - and knowing is half the battle . 	While fans of the Hasbro toy franchise may revel in a bit of nostalgia , G.I . Joe : The Rise of Cobra is largely a cartoonish , over-the-top action fest propelled by silly writing , inconsistent visual effects , and merely passable performances .
10009419-mommas man Within its modest docudrama style , Momma 's Man addresses universal experience as presumptuously as does a mainstream Pop epic . The main character in Momma 's Man shuffles through life like he 's been poleaxed , and you may feel the same after you watch this slow-motion indie exercise about a grown-up who returns home and ca n't leave . It 's a quiet film , with its own measured pace , but it has more painfully astute observations than most comedies with 10 times the budget . Perhaps the most indispensable cast member , however , is the Jacobs ' dwelling , their residence since 1966 . After a summer full of movies that celebrate the arrested development of their male characters , that titter and wink while grown men behave like teenagers , Momma 's Man is a welcome palette cleanser . ... just when the film seems about to disengage us observing Mikey 's morose return to the womb , something startling begins to happen . Much comic pathos arises from the realization that Mikey has no perspective on his parents . They are as mysterious in their idiosyncrasies as anyone 's . Writer-director Jacobs is one of those rare filmmakers who forgoes conventional narrative in order to tell a story through the visual details of a world and the behavior of characters within it . It 's time to stop calling Azazel Jacobs a 'promising ' filmmaker . With Momma 's Man , Jacobs achieves the promise . A slow albeit riveting look at a 30-year-old married man who has regressed to childhood for a while . 	Moody yet touching , Momma 's Man successfully illustrates with elegant simplicity the struggles of a man consumed with his adolescence .
clouds of sils maria Binoche is reliably good but it 's Stewart who genuinely surprises , delivering a sexually-charged portrait of a girl who 's youthfully vulnerable at one moment and a whipsmart mobile-phone juggling fixer the next . Binoche , on whom the camera affectionately lingers , makes herself achingly vulnerable . Though the film feels at times a bit cloudy and enigmatic , it 's often fascinating in its juxtapositions . A haunting look at the anxieties of a profession where blurring the line between fantasy and reality is both part of the job description and a vocational hazard . Kristen Stewart , in what might be her best performance to date , entirely holds her own with Oscar-winner Juliette Binoche . A meditation on fame , acting , aging , and acceptance , `` Clouds '' is a multilayered rapture on the subject of woman , performing . Not only does the film demand repeat viewings , it rewards them . `` Clouds Of Sils Maria '' swirls with provocative ideas , but they 're talked about more than dramatized ... If there was ever a reminder needed of Juliette Binoche 's great and enduring talent , Assayas delivers it here . Playful and provocative , it 's a dazzler . Few contemporary filmmakers can touch Assayas as a storyteller - even his most enigmatic moments here will inspire lively post-screening conversations - or as a director of actors . Binoche and Stewart inhabit their characters ' complicated friendship , whether they 're doing the nuts-and-bolts , behind-the-scenes business of managing a career or getting drunk at a small casino . 	Bolstered by a trio of powerful performances from its talented leads , Clouds of Sils Maria is an absorbing , richly detailed drama with impressive depth and intelligence .
killer of sheep A little known , long lost classic thankfully becomes available on DVD after decades of obscurity . Intellectually provocative , tonally contrasting and highlighting body language over sparse dialogue , 'Killer of Sheep ' forces us to connect the dots . Burnett is particularly adept at capturing children 's play , how imagination supercedes material possession . It 's impossible not to partake in Burnett 's delight in the domestic , or in his celebration of an art that finds God in the details . as powerful and moving a film as it 's been rumored to be . The strength of this little movie is its artlessness , the non-plotted story acted by non-actors , the raw unpretentiousness of real life in the Watts ghetto of Los Angeles . A time capsule of 1970s style and attitude that remains utterly timeless in its respect for its characters and its recognition of the despair , passion , boredom , playfulness and cruelty nurtured not just by life in the ghetto but by life itself . Killer of Sheep can be seen ( and reseen ) as a great -- the greatest -- cinematic tone poem of American urban life . ... a seminal American feature ... Burnett 's empathy for his characters is obvious , and his carefully composed vignettes provide a host of indelible images ... 	By turns funny , sad , and profound , Killer of Sheep offers a sympathetic and humane glimpse into inner-city life .
bullets over broadway A backstage comedy bolstered by healthy shots of prohibition gangster melodrama and romantic entanglements . Its view of human nature is not very flattering ... but the characters are endearing all the same , in spite of their hang-ups . You can watch Bullets Over Broadway with the sound off and have a thrilling time . You can listen to it from the next room and achieve total bliss . An honest attempt at creating farce , albeit one that tweaks the age-old artist 's dilemma throughout . Allen has created one of his post purely entertaining films in years . Has more laughs packed into its exquisitely orchestrated 99 minutes than anything [ Allen 's ] done in nearly 20 years . As one-liningly sharp and self-deprecating as you 'd expect . If not more so . Woody Allen at his finest . Wiest is sensational . The most insightful and deliciously droll look at show business since Robert Altman skewered Hollywood in 1992 's The Player . Not Woody 's worse , but it 's nothing to write Hall about . 	A gleefully entertaining backstage comedy , Bullets Over Broadway features some of Woody Allen 's sharpest , most inspired late-period writing and direction .
startupcom It has the grim grip on our imaginations of an accident we notice just before it happens . A fascinating story of a friendship and a company under enormous pressure The editing is seamless , the drama builds throughout , and the arc of the central character is as shapely as in a Hollywood fiction . Compelling viewing . Devastating postmortem on a dead dot-com . a finely observant job ... [ a ] revealing blink of history If cell-phone arguments and venture capital meetings are n't necessarily the stuff of visceral cinema , the 'characters ' at the core of this saga prove compelling enough to make up for it . Takes what could be a sleep-inducing concept and makes it as compelling as almost any movie currently playing on the big screen . Eventually impressive because , unlike many recent documentaries , it has the ability to be about more than one thing at once . With newcomer Noujaim ( who was a Harvard roommate of Tuzman ) , they once again pull off a coup in what is essentially an art of creative noticing . 	Startup.com is more than just a look at the rise and fall of the new economy . At its center is a friendship being tested to the limit , and that 's what makes it worth viewing .
standard operating procedure Sometimes painful to watch , but a movie that must be seen . Fascinating and horrifying , especially if you take a step back and view it thinking about what it tells us about the society in which these abuses took place . As shocking are the prisoner treatments permitted as `` standard operating procedure '' . A disturbing , dispassionate investigation . His assembly of the material and the protagonists is impressive , but you are left to wonder about his ultimate aim and point of view . Errol Morris has become the Steven Spielberg or Martin Scorsese of documentary filmmaking , with all the positives and negatives that rather facile comparison implies . Even with an amazing filmmaker like Morris , it 's impossible to yet fully focus the photos from Abu Ghraib and truly know what happened , who was right , who was wrong , and when it will happen again . See Standard Operating Procedure for its riveting narrative , for the way it keeps looping back -- to the swirls of Danny Elfman 's night music -- to the basement of Abu Ghraib . You probably wo n't find a more illuminating account of what happened within the walls of Abu Ghraib . Morris 's signature touches can occasionally seem studied to the point of annoyance but the cumulative power of his busy , artsy style generally enhances the horror , making it no more palatable than necessary . All I am arguing here is that Morris 's manner of relating this story is very often quite inappropriate to its substance . 	Well researched and finely crafted , Standard Operating Procedure is another gem from master documentarian Errol Morris .
bowfinger There 's something about Steve Martin that just makes me laugh . Powered by a hilarious , high-octane performance by Eddie Murphy and a witty , boisterous script by his co-star , Steve Martin , Bowfinger offers 90-plus minutes of solid entertainment . Just watch two of the still funniest guys in the country do what they do best , without a bad script to get in the way . You do n't need to be 12 to appreciate the humor . Martin and Murphy were never funnier ... ... entertaining and innocuous as a rhinestone . Pleasant , but not terribly original . The movie has some very funny moments but is oddly low-key , from its slow set-up of the premise to its lack of follow-through on some of the comic possibilities . Your sides will hurt when the film fades out . It is a comedy event not to be missed . A wonderfully sharp-witted , goofily exuberant movie ! 	A witty commentary on modern film-making , with enough jokes to keep it entertaining throughout .
wardance 'The world breaks everyone and afterward many are strong at the broken places , ' Hemingway wrote in A Farewell to Arms . That statement might stand as the summation of this documentary , which celebrates the strength of winsome , broken children . These kids are amazing in the most literal sense of the word , and you will never forget them . War/Dance complicates documentary tradition , trying to express events that seem beyond expression . Directors Sean and Andrea Fine have set out to make an inspirational film about the transcendent power of music in a war zone . What they have achieved is a piece of emotional pornography . This film offers a child 's perspective on the ravages and complexity of war and is also a convincing testament to the healing power of creative expression . The horror and heartwarming [ is ] equally compounded . At once heartbreaking and inspirational . Children in dire situations can be a tricky , quasi-exploitive subject for filmmakers ... but it 's handled here in a responsible , occasionally joyous fashion . You can still feel your heartstrings being pulled , but when it 's done this well , it 's tough to be The joyous song and vibrant dance of the schoolchildren uplift all who see them . They are war orphans , casualties of Uganda 's civil strife , healing physical and psychic wounds by performing ancient tribal rites in a national competition . This is documentary-making at its best , not pretending to be journalism , but still playing a crucial role in telling stories that otherwise would n't make the front page . 	War/Dance is beautifully filmed , and effectively captures the heartbreaking and uplifting experiences of its subjects .
bulletproof monk A plot so preposterous it could only have emerged from the underground comic world . While some of the buddy sequences between Monk and Kar have a sweetness to them , as soon as Jade gets into the mix it turns sour . The fight scenes are routine , the humor juvenile , and the Toronto locales rendered drab through muddy cinematography . The story does n't hold up to the least bit of logical scrutiny . The lighting is bad , the editing of the action sequences sometimes messy , but these infelicities , curiously enough , increase the fun rather than diminishing it . This story , while entertaining , is hardly bulletproof . Nobody expects too much depth in an action movie based on a comic book series , but we would like a little fun with the story - and that 's hard when the characters do n't seem to be having any . An incompetently patched-together mess . Its entertainment value is as modest as its production values . For being bulletproof , this monk sure does have a lot of holes ! 	Venerable action star Chow Yun-Fat is the only saving grace in this silly action flick that more often than not resembles a commercial in style .
lost embrace It 's 20 minutes too long -- forgivable in view of Burman 's affection for his material . Director Daniel Burman creates an amusing , meandering tale with distinct personalities . Sweet but not too , a tangy , teasing valentine to dear hearts and gentle people who start to feel like family . Burman is like Woody Allen with a human face . the type of movie that will slap a smile on your face and keep it there ... a unique little world full of characters that surprise and delight Captivating . Endless wandering and questioning with dramatic simmerings on the back burner do n't quite amount to emotional connection . The film 's moments of whimsy and its wry comic insights into one man 's Prufrockian drifting and yearning through life add up to a charming oddity . Plays out in a low-key but charming fashion . A wearisomely intellectual observation of one man 's identity-hunt . It 's a sweet , funny movie with just enough substance to make it better than the average quirky comedy . 	A low-key but charming tale that will put a smile on your face .
dark water Dark Water proves that the horrors of the human condition are just as frightening , if not more so , than all things that go drip in the night . [ A ] skillfully crafted psychological thriller . A mature film about the courage it takes to survive in a mortal world that 's dependent on temporary relationships . About as much fun as riding in a broken-down elevator . Narrowly focused and appropriately claustrophobic , Dark Water creates believability by balancing life 's small annoyances with darker , more malignant events . Confined by the supposed thrills and chills of pseudo-J-horror , the film 's allegorical depth remains , unlike all the ooze saturating Connelly 's digs , hopelessly clogged . It 's familiar material twisted into interesting directions , and even if it does n't always succeed dramatically , the attempt is clear , and I appreciate the film for that alone . The strong cast , intriguing visuals and subtle scripting keep things introspective and unsettling , until Hollywood takes over . This Americanized remake of a 2002 Japanese horror film ca n't make up its mind whether to be a drama or a thriller . Equal parts quiet , creepy , tragic , and visually gorgeous , Dark Water might be one of the best movies of 2005 that nobody went to see . 	All the atmospherics in Dark Water ca n't make up for the lack of genuine scares .
1211197-everybodys fine Ultimately , Everybody 's Fine becomes a holiday movie of rare sweetness ; one likely to inspire a few calls home to Mom or Dad . Written and directed by British director Kirk Jones with guidance , apparently , from Dr. Phil ... ... we 've now taken a trip to the dysfunctional family well one time too many . Disappointment that it is n't what a De Niro movie used to be - powerful , challenging and edgy . Now his movies are weak and clichd with a mushy centre . Let the sentiment reveal itself . Do n't veer into sentimentality . Do n't push . Just trust the story . That 's the whole trick with a movie like Everybody 's Fine . Cloying sentimentality threatens to overwhelm this quiet character study about a widower trying to reconnect with his children . Parental Content Review What could have been a slight , even cloying tale of miscommunications , becomes in De Niro 's hands a genuinely heart-wrenching story of people 's good intentions gone awry Touching without slipping into a cloying routine , hitting a sweet spot of regret that I 'm certain most filmgoers around the ages of these characters will be able to relate to in some way or another . Some might say poetic . Some might say , `` oh please . '' 	A calm , charismatic performance from Robert De Niro nearly saves the movie , but ultimately , Everybody 's Fine has the look and feel of a stereotypical Christmas dramedy .
partir There have been many adultery movies over the years , but Leaving has some aspects that make it different and interesting . Kristin Scott Thomas breathes new life into a woman who was invented by Flaubert and copied by Francoise Sagan . As Suzanne 's stair-stepping recklessness leads ever downward , from secret rendezvous to public humiliations to thievery and worse , `` Leaving '' trades sympathy for surprise . Perhaps you have to be a fan to really like it -- but I think this is more than enough to turn waverers into fully paid-up Scott Thomas admirers . Kristin Scott Thomas is the only reason to spend time with this soap . Yet , despite its many shortcomings , the film remains watchable and entertaining . Even for the routinely terrific Kristin Scott Thomas , the infidelity-themed Leaving is a top-drawer thesping workout . [ Thomas ] remains a mesmerizing mix of carnality and class , and through richer and poorer , she keeps director/co-writer Catherine Corsini 's bourgeois fantasy from overheating . Despite the clichd beginning of this film by co-writer/director Catherine Corsini -- rich housewife diverts herself with the hired help -- it gathers intrigue and pathos as the story develops . Even when the plot stretches credibility , [ Kristin Scott Thomas ' ] performance is utterly riveting 	Laden with melodramatic clichs , Leaving needed a talented star to succeed -- and Kristin Scott Thomas delivers the goods with another superb performance .
the killer inside me A disappointment , even if you 're intrigued by the phrase 'Rough sex with Jessica Alba . ' If in the end it does n't fully capture the malignant brilliance of its source ... there 's enough Thompson in it to make that sick puppy Lou Ford a guy worth spending a couple of hours with . While the individual moments of brutality are powerful , the pacing of the film as a whole tends to lag . The suspense should be suffocating . Winterbottom was right to keep the light and compositions flat and bright and eerily sunny , no matter what sort of evilness Lou perpetrates . But the story should grow progressively more reckless-seeming and feverish ; instead , it is methodical to a fault . A baffling film . Not just the narrative , but the motives behind making it . Affleck is great here . It 's a psychologically haunting portrait of an extreme personality , an amoral , violent , lonely man . An excellent film which takes some big , brave steps in the crime genre ... It 's still near impossible to capture Jim Thompson 's Godlessness on film Little , however , can save The Killer Inside Me from its worst impulses , its reveling in brute violence that makes it hard to watch and nearly impossible to admire , even though it 's carefully crafted . 	The Killer Inside Me is stylish and beautifully shot , but Michael Winterbottom 's distance from his characters robs this often brutally violent film of crucial emotional context .
bram stokers dracula Has a film ever promised so much yet delivered so little ? Oldman is so vivid and funny as the cackling , centuries-old Dracula that we look forward to seeing what he 'll do in the London scenes . Coppola 's great strengths as a director are his dedication to this project and his brilliant use of imagery . Altogether it 's a fun movie , full of gore and special effects that were groundbreaking at the time . There 's no argument that this new take on the very old story is deliciously fresh . A feast for the senses that fails to satisfy the heart , libido or mind . Coppola 's stunning adaptation of the classic vampire novel is a movie lover 's dream , as the director elected to rely on old-school cinematic techniques ( albeit executed with modern-day aplomb ) to punch across his bold and bloody interpretation . The movie is an exercise in feverish excess , and for that if for little else , I enjoyed it . Good for all the wrong reasons . With Dracula it 's apparent that Mr. Coppola 's talent and exuberance survive . 	Overblown in the best sense of the word , Francis Ford Coppola 's vision of Bram Stoker 's Dracula rescues the character from decades of campy interpretations -- and features some terrific performances to boot .
magic trip 2011 It is n't exactly boring . But it 's hard being the designated driver at someone else 's bacchanal . To be sure , one gets a better sense of the personalities , and the passions stirring their souls , in Wolfe 's book . But Magic Trip literally brings these characters to life . All the film can do is suggest to us what a `` long , strange trip '' it has been , thereby echoing the lyrics in the Grateful Dead song . Alex Gibney and Alison Ellwood manage to cut through the underbrush of this incoherent material to create a clear , if repetitive , through-line and put it into context , with footnote-type stops for side trips of social and historic significance . Magic Trip is about as fun as being the only sober person at a party . Time to get on the bus . The first striking thing about the documentary is that nothing about it reads 1964 . a unique historical artifact , to be sure , but one which reveals nothing exceptional about the personalities , the times or the themes explored . The prehistory of psychedelia gets an interesting , if minor footnote with this documentary co-directed by Alex Gibney - who made Enron : The Smartest Guys in the Room . Regularly fascinating , but often somewhat inaccessible in its lack of historical context for the uninitiated . 	Magic Trip is overall unenlightening , though there 's an inherent novelty and joy in seeing the unearthed footage of Ken Kesey and his band of Merry Pranksters .
apocalypse now A paradox of beauty and horror . ... it 's wonderful to see this hallucinatory folly-cum-near masterpiece again on the big screen . One of the best movies about the Vietnam War , an epic spectacle that 's brilliant up to the last reel , when Brando appears . It is also the perfect device for so many universal stories , mythic and true . The journey is everyman 's road to self-discovery . ... arguably the most effective opening in movie history . Few films can rival the grandiosity of its scale and thematic ambitions It is also occasionally flaccid , incomprehensible and obtuse . Yet , it manages to overcome these flaws to stand as a fascinating study of the nature of evil in man . I remember leaving the theater feeling shocked , bewildered , confused and , though I was amazed and thrilled by the action , the ending somehow left me unsettled . I 'm revisiting and 'REDUX-ing ' one of our five star film entries , to ensure that it is paid the dues it deserves . Let 's get to it , with extreme prejudice . It remains a wonderfully imperfect explosion of genius and immaturity , in approximately equal measure . 	Francis Ford Coppola 's haunting , hallucinatory Vietnam War epic is cinema at its most audacious and visionary .
a team I love it when a summer movie comes together . The characters ... are without interest . Their problems are not our problems . But the sheer motion , the spectacle and the flashes of wit take The A-Team out of the realm of garbage . It 's fun . This remake is cheesy , preposterous , geeky , corny . . . and completely fun . Tries a bit too hard to cater to fans of the original show at times , but it 's exactly the type of fun escapist entertainment we need this summer . The A-Team film stands on its own , and as it stands it 's one of the best action films of the year . Aimless plot , no real sense of purpose ... it wastes a talented cast . It is not awful just very , very ordinary . develops a ditzy rhythm all its own At best , this is entertainment for pre-teen boys who prefer meaningless action and little else in their movies . It 's all shot and edited in a cut-to-ribbons , unsatisfying , no-stakes CGI way . 	For better and for worse , Joe Carnahan 's big-screen version of The A-Team captures the superficial , noisy spirit of the TV series .
alien vs predator One thing is certain : Nobody is going to be demanding a rematch . First , Van Helsing . Now , this . What 's next - Indiana Jones vs. Lara Croft ? There are a few worthy twists that make the film bearable , but only just . AVP works in those few shining moments when the monsters are allowed to do their own thing . Once the running and screaming starts , the proceedings degenerate into a surprisingly Alien 3-like morass of claustrophobic sprints through dark corridors , punctuated by boogie beasts springing out of the shadows . While ... the movie is n't good exactly , it 's certainly not the trainwreck everybody 's been expecting . Anderson ( Resident Evil , Event Horizon , Mortal Kombat ) has a thing for gamelike killing sprees . What he does n't have is talent . A transparent attempt to jumpstart two run-down franchises . It is n't some kind of ghastly betrayal of anything . It 's just a rather silly exercise in schlock sci-fi horror that does n't pretend to be anything else . In the end , we are left with a dull woman who is surrounded by puppets and voiceless actors covered in prosthetics -- and it 's never a good sign when the special effects give more memorable performances than the hero . 	Gore without scares and cardboard cut-out characters make this clash of the monsters a dull sit .
scream-4 This fourth instalment will please the older fans of the series and should make some new ones amongst the audience who were too young to catch Scream on its first go round . Fifteen years ago , I ended my Scream review by saying that the horror genre needed a new face . It now needs considerably more than that . It 's great fun . Compared to director Wes Craven 's previous horror outing , last year 's unforgivably awful My Soul to Take , Scream 4 is one of the greatest horror movies ever made . Craven happily treading water , exploding the clichs he exploded so successfully 16 years ago . Result is a brain-dead brainteaser , a mirror reflection of a mirror reflection . At this point , the title should really be Shrug . Not even the smug irony endures -- it 's hard to congratulate yourself for being in on a stale joke . ... does what Scream 3 failed to do : further the franchise while keeping it fresh ... certainly a better conclusion than where the previous installment left off . An entertaining albeit flawed return to form from horror maestro Wes Craven , Scream 4 packs as much wit as it does bloodshed . If you only watch Scream 4 once , it might prove satisfying . But the film fails to hold any value beyond its first screening , largely thanks to a sloppy script that feels like a rough draft . 	The franchise is showing its age , but Scream 4 is undeniably an improvement over its predecessor , with just enough meta humor and clever kills .
force majeure 2014 No synopsis can ever reveal the film 's greatest strength , which is how frequently hilarious it is . Force Majeure asks fascinating questions that play out in challenging dramatic scenes . Maybe watch it alone though . I would n't want to get into it with a date , but for the record , I 'd die for you , baby . Force Majeure is the human condition under assault . One thing 's for sure - any father who sees `` Force Majeure '' will stay rooted to their seat the next time an avalanche is coming their way . The alternative is more painful than annihilation . A penetrating study of human weakness , Force Majeure shows us things about these characters , and by extension ourselves , that we might not want to see . Emotionally eviscerating , it explores gender stereotypes and assumptions . Cinematographer Fredrik Wenzel and editor Jacob Secher Schulsinger play out long takes , allowing us to take in fleeting bits of information while also generating nervous laughter . ... interesting but too long ... cut 30 minutes and this is a winner . Couples , be warned : this is n't date-night material . The laughter it provokes may be uneasy , but the ultimate emotional impact is quite real . 	Gleefully uncomfortable , Force Majeure is a relationship drama that 's hard to watch -- and just as difficult to ignore .
beautiful losers It succeeds intermittently and is reasonably enlightening , but whether audiences are really going to warm up to the individuals presented here is questionable . Some of the art is probably interesting , but Rose 's own video-influenced filmmaking style leaves little time for inspection or reflection . You ca n't help but feel like a bit of an eye-rolling parent , wondering if a few of them might benefit from a proper job and a light slap . Though [ Director ] Mr. Rose ca n't be blamed for waxing nostalgic , he ca n't much expect us to care about so fawning and self-serving a document . Prioritising the self over the job means Beautiful Losers is rarely more than a compendium of loveliness and apology . The affection these people have for each other is what makes Beautiful Losers ( the name is taken from one of their shows ) so attractive . a celebration of rude and raw art and the kinetic charge of experiencing something fresh and undefiled An absorbing look at how a circle of dispossessed young artists from the 1990s eventually found its way to mainstream success . Pleasing though less-than-profound homage . A product of the movement as much as an ode to it , the film is a gem because of the immaturity and intimacy that it shares with those featured in it . 	An insightful if fawning documentary that explores a group of 90s NYC artists .
little fockers A few morsels of hilarity and many that are cringe worthy Lewd , vulgar and tiresome ... to quote from Twitter : 'I bet the Robert DeNiro of 'Taxi Driver ' would shoot the Robert DeNiro of 'Little Fockers . ' When the conclusion leaves the door open for still another sequel , it feels like an invitation to a living wake . It takes too long for the story to take off and even longer for the comedy to kick in . Despite its title , Little Fockers barely features children . Other things it 's lacking include laughs , coherence , and a reason to exist Enough is enough . This franchise has run its course and made its millions , but now it 's time for it to fock off . Brutally unfunny , Little Fockers is one more go-round of cheap physical comedy and wan dysfunctional-family gags . The third installment in the series has the stale , slightly sour ambiance you 'd expect when walking into a summer house that 's been shut up for the winter . Utterly formulaic but not unfunny , despite an overreliance on the comedy of below-the-belt pain ( prostates and erections are particularly abused ) . Tedious , asinine , jejune and so painfully unfunny that it will make your eyes and ears bleed . 	As star-studded as it is heartbreakingly lazy , Little Fockers takes the top-grossing trilogy to embarrassing new lows .
summers tale The fresh-faced actors , realistic dialogue and naturalistic performances suggest a casual approach , but as the story progresses , the filmmaker 's control is increasingly evident . `` A Summer 's Tale '' has room to focus on Rohmer 's brilliance at revealing human nature through articulate , multidimensional characters , perfectly cast , who in some ways seem to exist outside of time . It 's the kind of vaguely philosophical travelogue/not-exactly-love story audiences are virtually guaranteed to find either exotically fascinating or utterly interminable . A Summer 's Tale feels like a great beach read of a movie , that deceptively slender paperback you tuck into your luggage because it 's substantial without weighing much . It 's a complex character study that reveals how little we can know of someone through conversation , as conversation often changes the way we both perceive and portray our sense of who we are . This is a movie of high innocence , set at a time in life when romantic love is still a frolic and the seaside is a balm that quells all ills . An emotionally rich tale with lots of tasty talk about the way men and women deal with each other , knowingly or otherwise . Those who are patient enough to persevere through the seemingly endless rambling conversations will catch snippets of intelligent repartee that make the film interesting and worthwhile . Despite its googly-eyed missive to the power of romance fueling confidence and comfort , A Summer 's Tale is most salient when addressing the bonds of friendship . Rohmer had an almost uncanny knack for using the mercurial predilections of the young as a launching pad for smart but not oppressive philosophical observations . 	With A Summer 's Tale , Eric Rohmer continues his `` Tales of the Four Seasons '' in typically Rohmeresque fashion -- and for cineastes , that 's excellent news indeed .
benchwarmers They hide these things for a reason , folks . The three losers play a series of Little League teams , snatching victory from the jaws of slapstick humiliation . The Benchwarmers is basically another dreadful and repetitive sophomoric session of misplaced potty humor that has all the devilish ingenuity of a corked baseball bat . The Benchwarmers is full of potty humor and worse , but this `` make work '' program for The Friends of Adam Sandler is not a dreadful movie , it 's just an inconsequential one To my shock , The Benchwarmers is not as unwatchable as one would expect -- and this is coming from someone who detests Napoleon Dynamite , is tired of David Spade , and could do without Rob Schneider any given day . Makes one long for the sophisticated wit of Deuce Bigalow : European Gigolo , which should tell you most of what you need to know . Stupidity this epic can only be the deliberate work of cynical opportunists . If The Benchwarmers were a real ball game , the mercy rule would end the punishment in the first 15 minutes . Even Jon Lovitz with a Batmobile , a dwarf attack in a playroom , and David Spade 's best wig ever ca n't save this mawkish misfire . This abysmally static comedy , the brainfart of 'the people who brought you Big Daddy ' is a mess on every level % u2026 depressingly woeful . 	A gross-out comedy that is more sophomoric than funny , The Benchwarmers goes down swinging .
ant bully While the animation , particularly in the action set pieces , is indeed well done , it 's nothing revolutionary nor imaginative that stands out from the rest in this CG-feature-a-week marketplace . The Ant Bully has enough poop jokes and dopey inspirational moments to win over young children for a while , but it does nothing to set itself apart . The Ant Bully is a sore disappointment to anyone hoping for a turnaround to the recent downward quality spiral of animated films . In fact , this movie may represent a new nadir for 3D animation . While the picture has the star power of Nicolas Cage and Julia Roberts voicing insects in love , they 're not nearly as interesting a couple as Woody Allen and Sharon Stone in Antz . There 's quite a bit of inventiveness here , which I found myself getting caught up in , even though it was a foregone conclusion where the film was heading . Enjoyable , brightly animated adventure with strong characters , superb gags and a script that is n't afraid to throw in a spot of political subtext . The screenplay is blessedly free of mediocre songs and light on flashy pop-culture in-jokes ... The Ant Bully wo n't battle your Pixar collection for DVD shelf space for that matter , neither will Pixar 's latest , Cars -- but nor will it have you staring at your watch . Crawling with marvelous microcosmic animation ... A family cartoon for anyone who ever smashed an ant-pile as a kid and lived to regret it . ... unnecessary ... 	Sometimes inventive and witty , this animated adventure into an ant-sized world is a pleasant diversion .
shark tale Although the vocal performances often amuse and delight , the overall design is charmless . I laughed quite a lot during this film . 'Es divertida , colorida y musical . Una buena cinta de animacin que injustamente ha sido menospreciada quiz por los valores que la hacen importante ' There are a couple of laughs , but for me , it 's a film that 's mainly just going through the motions . I went into Shark Tale expecting a low-rent Nemo wannabe ; I left it understanding it to be a low-rent Nemo wannabe that works . The script is a long string of awful verbal and visual puns , and the animation , while colorful , is a big step back from the Shrek films ( and nowhere near Pixar 's league ) . Shark Tale is no disaster , but despite the efforts of three directors , two screenwriters and phalanxes of technicians , it seems to be treading water . Want a good fish story ? Watch Finding Nemo again instead Making a kids ' movie that 's also funny for grown-ups is a very fine line , and Shark Tale has fallen way over the wrong side of it . Fast , fresh , funny action comedy set undersea . 	Derivative and full of pop culture in-jokes .
madness of king george Hawthorne is by turn outrageous and pathetic and imperious and poignant and very funny . The thrill of Hawthorne 's astounding performance is not something you want to miss . Unusually faithful , magnificently performed . So slick , so clever and so incredibly lucid that it neither leads to much in the way of thought , discussion or , unfortunately , repeat viewing . Shows how illness can turn one 's world upside down and test one 's mettle . Without exception , the acting is top-notch . It 's Hawthorne 's engaging performance that makes this drama both fun and moving . Hawthorne is so good it almost hurts to watch . Thankfully , most of the humor here works , but on the whole , the film falls to mediocrity . We emotionally invest in the king , who is not simply a big joke but a vulnerable and somehow loveable fool . 	Thanks largely to stellar all-around performances from a talented cast , The Madness of King George is a funny , entertaining , and immensely likable adaptation of the eponymous stage production .
the act of killing These bizarre images distract from the question at the center of the film : whether it was film-watching itself that carried the seed of all this cruelty . As insights into the darkest corners of human mentality go , this is a truly remarkable , real-life alternative to movies like Downfall ( the last days of Hitler ) and The Last King of Scotland ( the Idi Amin story ) . The cameras bring out the worst in all concerned , who think nothing of singing and dancing about mass murder . The emotional places this troubling movie takes him to are rewardingly primal and potent , forcing both subject and viewer to wrestle with internal demons . Absolutely shattering . The best documentary to grace U.S. screens in years . It 's horrifying , riveting , and even , at times , darkly funny . If director Joshua Oppenheimer occasionally loses his way in his own narrative , where this picture demands attention is in its chilling portrait of indoctrination and evil . Maddening , sorrowful , brilliant , and unforgettable . It 's one of the most gruelling and disturbing films you will ever see but , if you want the truth , essential . Bizarre to the point of trippiness , yet it 's one of the most lucid portraits of evil I 've ever seen . 	Raw , terrifying , and painfully difficult to watch , The Act of Killing offers a haunting testament to the edifying , confrontational power of documentary cinema .
mothman prophecies An intelligent , tense thriller of the unexplained , a film for anyone who thinks the X Files movie comes up short . The stylish bleakness keeps you off-balance with unreliable narration and an unforgettable conclusion . The more it accelerates rant-and-rave paranoia , the greater it gets - a campfire-ready chiller whose subconscious embers glow long after it 's over . Gere lets his jutting square-jawness and blinking dumbfoundment stand in for Klein 's supposed grief-stricken anguish and In Search Of ... befuddlement . Jaded moviegoers will probably swat away this less-than-engrossing supernatural thriller . It requires patience from its viewer , does n't go for the easy `` boo '' scares and utilizes a lot of style to maneuver you into further unease . In promoting its cliche-ridden sci-fi-horror , Sony is using the tage `` based on true story , '' as if the `` factulaity '' of the text is a badge of honor , or necessary condition for taking the schlocky flick more seriously . Pellington knows , as did the 1940s master of horror Val Lewton , that what you do n't see can raise far more goose bumps than what you do . Not a schlocky creature feature but something far more stylish and cerebral -- and , hence , more chillingly effective . The thriller is like an average episode of The X-Files stretched to two hours , without the humor and with less satisfaction . You would probably be better off watching an episode of The X-Files instead . . . 	A creepy thriller that poses more questions than it answers .
rize ... celebrates an innovative dance spectacle that 's admirable both for its amazing rhythm and physical dexterity , as well as its effects on self-esteem and community fellowship [ LaChapelle 's ] not the world 's best documentarian , but he saw something that needed chronicling . So he turned his camera on the krumpers and let them do the rest . Smart choice . It 's an incomplete film . We do n't get to know these kids well enough . While the dance scenes are intoxicating , on-camera interviews with the participants are sobering . Rize is n't a revolution . It 's a fashion shoot . LaChapelle gives the kids a platform , but he does n't dare probe beneath the surface . LaChapelle 's powerful street-dance documentary Rize never lets us forget that its subjects are dancing in a war zone . But dance they do , in a kind of controlled frenzy , with music throbbing and limbs whirling and swaying and pulsing to the beat . Rize is uplifting without being manipulative , and if -- at 85 minutes -- it is a little longer than it needs to be , LaChapelle is clearly committed to giving these dancers every possible moment of glory . LaChapelle reveals the captivating qualities of gritty street dancing , and his film is a touching story of hope , vitality and art rising from the bleakest conditions . Rize sees LaChapelle turning into a historian-sociologist who feels excitement and wants to share it . 	The dances in Rize are electric even if the documentary does n't go that deeply into the performers ' lives .
fools gold 2008 as pretty as it is dumb This movie feels very generic and very , very long ; after it 's over , you might need a little sunscreen for your brain . This charmless romantic comedy-adventure is pretty dumb -- dumber even than the recent National Treasure sequel , if that 's possible . That two of the three scribes responsible for Fool 's Gold have previously specialized in horror makes perfect sense . Does Matthew McConaughey 's contract call for him to be shirtless for a specific amount of time in every movie ? The comedy , though , is broad and only mildly effective and the banter lacks edge and wit . An unfunny and overlong sea romp . An extended cruise ship commercial run through the blender with `` Gilligan 's Island '' sub-plots and slacker pratfalls . A teenager 's story about treasure hunting that not even a teen-ager could love . ... never aspires to much , but it 's easy on the eyes , a vicarious Caribbean vacation , a beach read on a rainy day . Once the eye candy value wears off , there 's precious little left to salvage from this awkward and only mildly diverting genre bender 	With little chemistry among the performers , humorless gags , and a predictable storyline , Fool 's Gold fails on every level .
league of their own This movie aims for the tear ducts and the funny bone as ruthlessly as the big action-fantasy hits go after the viscera . The result is an enjoyable , if lightweight comic fiction . One of the year 's most cheerful , most relaxed , most easily enjoyable comedies . It 's a serious film that 's lighter than air , a very funny movie that manages to score a few points for feminism in passing . The movie drones along uninvolvingly , as if it were erecting a monument , not telling a story . Tremendously enjoyable Energetic , full of goodwill and good feelings , it never quite attains the graceful nonchalance and self-confidence with which finely tuned athletes -- and comedies -- move and enchant us . Layered comedy-drama is worthwhile viewing Watchable , star-studded fluff From its jokey , one-note characters to its endless baseball montages , A League of Their Own is all flash , all surface : It 's a great big trailer for itself . An excellent comeback vehicle for Hanks , and a good film , overall . 	Sentimental and light , but still thoroughly charming , A League of Their Own is buoyed by solid performances from a wonderful cast .
man who cried This film has all the right ingredients , but a lousy cook . A sprawling affair , filled with bad accents ... tired cliches about studly horsemen and young girls ' sexual awakenings , and really bad lip-syncing to Italian opera . There is n't too much happening , other than a lot of lip-synching . Writer and director Sally Potter ( The Tango Lesson ) , who has a propensity for crafting sumptuous music and visuals while having difficulty coming up with a compelling narrative , has her usual troubles in The Man Who Cried . It all wo n't be enough to convince Potter 's critics , but the lush images that she assembles have a fascination . Always interesting in a morbid and curious sort of way . Potter 's cinematic sleight of hand is not quite enough to compensate for the insufficient spark in her storytelling . Far from the film that you would expect it to be considering the talent involved . Suzie and Cesar are essentially reactive characters , as much victims of underwriting as they are of persecution . Gives bad movies a good name . 	The storyline is overwrought and awkward , and the audience is distanced from the flatly drawn characters .
monsters ball Despite the occasionally facile portraiture of screenwriters Will Rokos and Milo Addica , the project is well redeemed by its dank atmosphere and cracker-barrel performances . Given the deliberate scarcity of action and dialogue , the actors are forced to rely heavily upon their interior lives , and more than deliver the goods . Enigmatic , elliptical and mesmerizing , Monster 's Ball invites myriad responses and interpretations . Monster 's Ball shows that convincing acting and a detailed , developed sense of place can make a story not only believable but moving . In [ Berry 's ] remarkably animated performance , Thornton 's deft laconic turn finds a fitting match . The strength of the actors ' performances help convince us of the possibility of passion . An emotionally devastating movie . Please read review - I can not summarize my amazement . All roads lead to acting-award nominations , but none lead to truth . A ltima Ceia mergulha sem reservas no triste universo de seus protagonistas , retratando-os de forma honesta e , justamente por isso , despertando reaes ambguas na platia . 	Somber and thought provoking , Monster 's Ball has great performances all around .
secret window Once again , Depp slouches into a piece of mainstream entertainment and takes every opportunity to amuse himself . Except for Depp 's performance , `` Secret Window '' is a film we 've seen and heard before . Bottom line , it 's extremely predictable , even if you did n't read the original novella . Depp 's ... wonderfully frazzled portrait of seething resentment almost makes this minor thriller seem fresh . Naturally , the less said about the spooks themselves , the better . [ A ] fairly mundane thriller . The story is so basic that it makes a fine template for an exercise in style , and Koepp layers on the details with great relish . The plot certainly has possibilities , but far too many of them are botched by writer-director David Koepp , who 's a better writer than director . Sadly , the good is n't as good as the best King adaptations , and the bad is n't as funny as the worst ones . Johnny Depp is the saving grace of a sub-par , often boring mystery film with a spirited performance . 	Depp is quirkily entertaining , but the movie runs out of steam by the end .
zathura A beautiful film , a return to movie-making craftsmanship that 's gone by the wayside in a wave of cubicle nerds carelessly rendering spaceships on their Apple computers . even with all the peril danger and turmoil the game causes , we secretly with that we could open a box from our basement and enter into an adventure like this ... at least I do Far and away more engaging that its predecessor , Jumanji ... director Jon Favreau ( `` Elf '' ) looks to have his second holiday hit on his hands Favreau again delivers that rare beast -- a family film that even childless adults can enjoy . This is the flick you always hoped to bump into on Saturday afternoon , and never did . The zingy wit and ingenuity of the film 's early scenes gradually fades , as Zathura becomes an increasingly repetitive series of action sequences , each noisier than the last . The effects are extremely good . Rather than opt for CGI overload , director Favreau and effects guru Stan Winston have elected to use good old-fashioned solid objects , which are entirely suited to the 1950s design of the game . Zathura , Jon Favreau 's adaptation of Chris Van Allsburg 's kid-lit adventure of the same name , more than fills the bill -- though it 's unlikely to draw anyone over the age of 11 ( not counting baby-sitters ) . The result is a glorious low-tech pleasure that may be the most lyrical , phantasmagoric boys ' adventure story since Joe Dante 's Explorers . The film 's Buck Rogers-style graphics are cool , but the shrilly squabbling brothers are insufferable , the story 's your-turn/my-turn structure is tedious , and its relentlessly reiterated message about brotherly love and cooperation is really grating . 	Dazzling special effects for the kids + well-crafted storytelling for the 'rents = cinematic satisfaction for the whole family .
fight club Blistering , hallucinatory , often brilliant , the film by David Fincher is a combination punch of social satire and sociopathology . Fight Club is this generation 's Clockwork Orange or Taxi Driver , a film of disturbing ideas that mainstream society and the mass media is going to have a hard time keeping in the ring . An absolutely amazing movie , as subversive as it gets . It 's a wonder it ever got made , especially by a major studio . A movie that wants to keep its audience unsettled from beginning to end . If it had all continued in the vein explored in the first act , it might have become a great film . But the second act is pandering and the third is trickery . Fight Club is a distinctively dense and often hilarious film , but in the end it 's nonsense . ... more clever and kinetic than it is profound , more a visceral movie than a think piece . A controversial satire and a contemporary classic . Director David Fincher 's camera swoops and sails in and out of tiny spaces in an exhibitionistic and self-conscious effort to be slick and showy and mod . Exhilarating , visually astounding , thought-provoking and very , very funny . 	Solid acting , amazing direction , and elaborate production design make Fight Club a wild ride .
sympathy for lady vengeance Like a fairy tale with fangs , Sympathy for Lady Vengeance promises pleasurable escapism , but ensnares its audience in a thorny line of questioning . full review in Greek ... Lee Yeong-ae is simply riveting in one of the most exciting female performances of the year thus far . Lady Vengeance is his most sullen and patient film , and yet it 's breathless pop filmmaking , narratively mercurial , viscerally traumatic , and thematically infernal . The theme of how all-around bad revenge is starts to wear a little thin ... But there 's always a perverse delight in just watching how a Park movie is executed . It concludes Park 's trilogy on a dual note of circular tragedy and fragile hope , while working equally well as an introduction to his universe of retribution and repentance or as a stand-alone thriller with a darkly feminist twist . It 's the kind of movie Kill Bill would have been if Quentin Tarantino had any truck with subtlety . Alternately wonky -- a late plot twist will leave you thinking a couple of the film 's reels went missing -- and offensive as only an elegant depiction of brutal violence can be , Lady Vengeance is meretricious nonsense . The films strain to present some kind of moral compass , a philosophy of revenge 's human toll . But in the end , their sadistic glee in creative bloodshed trumps all . The kind of glorious sensory rush that you can only get when a supremely confident director fully kicks out the jams . Submerged within the flash , however , is a nihilistic worldview that may be even more curdled than its predecessors . 	Stylistically flashy and gruesomely violent , Sympathy for Lady Vengeance fits in nicely with the other two films of Park 's revenge trilogy .
1017289-rear window One of Hitchcock 's most accessible films is also one of his most gleefully deviant , dealing as it does with such fun urban pastimes as voyeurism and spousal mayhem . Since the 1954 Alfred Hitchcock classic is all about the voyeuristic instinct , the better the view , the more sensational the experience . There 's no need for anybody to go on at length about the absolute brilliance of Alfred Hitchcock 's 1954 thriller , which represented the first stunning cinematic statement about the effects of the kind of modern voyeurism associated with film itself . Never to be surpassed , never to be repeated . One of the most elegant entertainments ever made in Hollywood , and also one of the boldest and most personal of the Hitchcock films -- a work that 's almost perverse in its giddy celebration of the thrill of voyeurism . Interesting and fun from the start . ... the film surely remains one of the most memorable and downright essential examples of the slow-burn thriller genre . The deliciousness of watching the film as it 's intended to be seen is that the big screen gives Rear Window back its claustrophobia . Voyeurism at its finest ! Hitchcock classic . 	Hitchcock exerted full potential of suspense in this masterpiece .
touching the void Few films have portrayed the resiliency of the human spirit with the stark realism of Touching the Void . You 'll be on the edge of your seat . Though matter- of-factly presented , Simpson 's endurance test exceeds the imagination , and reanimates every blurbable clich in the film reviewer 's word bank . Nail-biting . Much more tense and thrilling than most Hollywood thrillers . When you see this film , bundle up and be prepared for an education in the possible . A vivid cinematic experience proving that the grip on narrative momentum evident in MacDonald 's 1999 Oscar-winning account of the 1972 Munich Olympics hostage crisis , One Day in September , remains as powerful as ever . Fear Factor . Survivor . Move over , you minor league adventurers . You want compelling ? Climb up to Touching the Void . A white-knuckle adventure that combines the suspense of great drama with the veracity of documentary . While some of the moviemaking looks very conventional , I have enormous respect for the camera operator and would n't blame him a bit if at times he worried more about stepping into a 300-foot crevasse than in getting the most original angle . 	Gripping even though the outcome is known .
venus Venus is sharply written with fine supporting performances , but the movie is all about O'Toole , showcasing an actor who at 72 continues to astound with the depth of his talent . It makes a nice arc from an entertaining beginning to a bittersweet ending . A modest , diverting , touching tale of a young woman who attracts the interest of an aging actor , played with effortless aplomb by the great Peter O'Toole . O'Toole is a lecherous marvel , and worth every ounce of his Oscar nomination for Best Actor . What Venus lacks as a work of consequence it makes up for with the performance of Peter O ' Toole in a role he was born 74 years ago to play . This is an indulgent movie and needs to be watched in the same spirit . O'Toole deserves all the praise he has been getting for this part . If only the movie 's story was on par with its grand , charismatic star . Venus showcases all we have come to love about O'Toole - his facile wit , his commitment to a scene , and the same light in his eyes that he had when he played T.E . Lawrence . ... a sentimental contrivance that turns into a dirty old man 's fantasy . 	Audiences may attend to witness Peter O'Toole 's Oscar-worthy performance , but they 'll also be treated to a humane , tender exploration of maturing with both dignity and irreverence .
10009929-a christmas tale If Four Christmases is merely a stocking stuffer , this is the new car out in the driveway with the big red ribbon around it . Deft , playful , fluid , haunting , and filled with the joy of filmmaking . A Christmas Tale is the yuletide antidote to Four Christmases . This could have been an emotionally wrenching film , but Desplechin keeps the tone light , infusing the drama with humor in the most unexpected places . Characters occasionally address the camera , which helps disentangle the competing story lines of madness , adultery , and betrayal . How do you say , 'Do n't even go there , girlfriend ! ' in French ? A long , improbably funny and very beautiful film . Once the connections become clear , however , this often bitter story almost becomes a thriller , as we fear the next outburst or revelation and its aftermath . ... plays at times like The Royal Tenenbaums without the twee affectations but nearly all the humor . Its numerous narrative strands are neither revealingly pursued nor properly intertwined . 	A sharp black comedy about a chaotic family holiday gathering , A Christmas Tale is always involving , thanks to an impressive ensemble cast .
dogtooth A remarkable depiction of paranoia gone amok ... a devastating metaphor for the way that everyone 's preparation for the world has something to do with the way they 're raised . As harrowing as it is humorous , Giorgos Lanthimos ' award-winning journey to a family 's heart of darkness is unflinchingly detailed , thought-provoking fare . Films with a distinct view are welcome but not when they are as minimalist , grainy , bereft of soundtrack music and lacking in entertainment value as this one . Not the cheeriest subject for a movie , but somehow it works . How perfectly perverse : In a summer crammed with sequels , remakes , '80s nostalgia and the frustrated sense of `` What else y'got ? '' comes the most original nightmare in years . Special and troubling . Giorgos Lanthimos ' sublimely unsettling parable begins with an outlandish idea and follows it through with devastating logic . When it 's over , we want to put it behind us . It just wo n't stay there . This is a film of great originality , a cumulative power and a basic oddness that you 'll either consider amazing or excruciatingly dull . Marking Lanthimos out as a great talent to watch , Dogtooth is a bold and unsettling mini-marvel that first sneaks up on you before biting you to the bone . 	It 'll be too disturbing -- and meandering -- for some , but Dogtooth is as disturbing and startlingly original as modern filmmaking gets .
octopussy Nice title , shame about the movie . Little is added that departs from the Bond formula . More sexual innuendo than usual in provocatively named film . This was the 13th Bond movie and it 's possibly the most frivolous in the series to date ( it 's certainly the most careless ) . Octopussy features 2 stand-out action sequences but for the most part , it 's an overlong , sluggish , and schizophrenic entry in the Bond series . Great Bond . Lousy title . May satisfy die hard Bond fans , but wo n't work for anyone else . Among the franchise 's weakest efforts . It 's a pleasure to report that the James Bond company is confidently back on the beam . Glen 's willingness to give the action sequences a certain weight and seriousness produces some genuinely exciting moments , yet his work is everywhere undermined by the flatness of the characterizations and the uncertain architecture of the plot . While the film is the first of the genuinely bloated Bond movies , it only rarely drags . 	Despite a couple of electrifying action sequences , Octopussy is a formulaic , anachronistic Bond outing .
love and basketball Writer/director Gina Prince-Bythewood has crafted a funny , heartfelt script that is attuned to the ways we can be weak without being bad people . Defeated by a labored , screenplay in this overlong , clunky love story about a boy and a girl brought together , then driven apart , by their basketball ambitions . The entire production is dumbed-down . Love and Basketball offers a rare gimpse into the life of female athletes , and Lathan 's got all the right moves . Offers a pleasant double whammy of roundball and romance . The only touch missing from this sweet , poignant , wonderfully acted and directed romance is the voice of Judy Garland . The story , about neighbors from an affluent black L.A. suburb who fall in love while pursuing individual hoop dreams , is about as realistic as the Clippers winning the NBA championship . One wishes producer Spike Lee had stepped in to give the dialogue some sass . As predictable and arbitrary as Quincy and Monica 's heel-dragging journey toward amorous bliss often is , Lathan and Epps infuse a startling amount of unforced erotic juice and emotional depth into their portrayals of the star-crossed jock paramours . Satisfying , enjoyable and smart . 	Confident directing and acting deliver an insightful look at young athletes .
the pirates band of misfits As a running gag , the man-panzee is pretty predictable , but as an observation of how cute creatures are perpetually manipulated and abused in family entertainments , it is rather rich . The joyfully silly gags in `` Pirates ! '' often feel old-fashioned in a `` Looney Tunes '' -esque way ... After 30 minutes you start to hanker for Wallace and Gromit . The movie ... is a cheerful entertainment , suitable for kids and parents of the brighter stripe . It 's just not Nick Park great . Harmless fun , with the occasional inspired gag . The Pirates ! does feel a tad slight , but as with Arthur Christmas , Aardman have hit on a pleasant winner that appeals to all ages . The humor is both broad and sly , existing in a mutually non-exclusive arrangement that brings to mind the best examples of symbiosis to be found in nature . While the appeal of lichens , one of nature 's best symbiots , is limited , that of this film is not The lovingly crafted sight gags are plentiful and the lightly Pythonesque dialogue is cleverer than your average live-action comedy . ... as sprightly and bright as the studio 's cherished favorites , such as Chicken Run , though the sheer volume of gags hurled here leads to a slightly lower hitting percentage . Pirates are right up there with vampires , werewolves and people saying `` LOL '' out loud on the list of Played-Out Pop Culture Phenomena , but leave it to Aardman Animation to find the remaining reservoirs of fun in a bunch of seafaring scalawags . 	It may not quite scale Aardman 's customary delirious heights , but The Pirates ! still represents some of the smartest , most skillfully animated fare that modern cinema has to offer .
y tu mama tambien Sexy , playful , delightfully vulgar -- and with political resonance as well . A sexy , funny , sad , uplifting , and , most importantly , human film . To everyone who bent over backwards to praise Y Tu Mama as raunchy , spicy , sexy , or hot , here 's a novel idea -- skip this mild stuff and rent some honest-to-God porn . The funniest and most emotionally charged erotic road movie since Bertrand Blier 's Going Places . Easily one of the sexiest and funniest films about class struggle ever made . It 's not as awful as some of the recent Hollywood trip tripe ... but it 's far from a groundbreaking endeavor . ... an aggressively political movie , a heartbroken testament about a generation without role models or devoted fathers . A pulsating group portrait of a country balancing youthful passion with the pull of adult responsibility . A raunchy and amusing road movie , Y Tu Mama Tambien is an entertaining and often frivolous exploration of sexuality . ... a vivid , thoughtful , unapologetically raw coming-of-age tale full of sex , drugs and rock 'n ' roll . 	A road movie that 's not only sexy , but intelligent as well .
1126165-good boy The high concept almost guarantees complete awfulness . In the face of such overwhelming odds most films would give up , but Good Boy ! goes down fighting . Best left to young children and the parents forced to see it with them . ... terrible , terrible movie . Perhaps Good Boy ! is not meant to be analyzed , but a film targeted at children should at least have some insight into the spirit of human nature or some sort of lesson . Instead , it 's just a silly little dog tale . No new ground is dug up in Good Boy , but the story is well-paced , sweet and lively , filling a void for very young filmgoers . Good Boy ! may not be a classic , but it is a solid , upbeat , funny movie . The movie asks us to consider a race of superior beings who are built a few feet off the ground , lack opposable thumbs and walk around nude all the time . Good Boy ! is so gentle and fleecy , dozing parents might suspect a fabric softener was involved in the creative process . A devastating work of pro-doggie propaganda . Bad Movie ! Bad ! Bad ! 	Good Boy ! should appeal to kids . Adults , however , might consider it a dog .
first position 2011 An appealing , largely upbeat documentary about young ballet dancers duking it out , sometimes on point and in tulle , for top honors at the Youth America Grand Prix . Inspiring documentary about hardworking young dancers . A griping documentary following several ballet hopefuls as they prepare for an international competition . First time director Bess Kargman has done a great job with this film in letting the personalities of these dancers and their families shine through . If you thought Black Swan made ballet look grim , this festival-fave documentary offers an earthier but no less griping portrait of the profession 's crippling realities . All of the dollars and expertise that produced this summer 's blockbusters could never produce a spectacle as wondrous as 11-year-old Aran Bell dancing his heart out . It 's an intense journey , and Kargman captures it all , down to the dancers ' bloodied and bruised feet . Truly exhilarating documentary about gifted young ballet dancers competing for scholarships and contracts with the world 's top ballet companies is at the top of its genre . Hopes are shared and dreams expressed during this uplifting journey in which we become involved in each of the dancers ' lives . As a consequence , we have a stake in what happens and are often moved as a result of the drama and tension Director Bess Kargman does an excellent job here with this initial plunge into filmmaking , for her choice of participants could not have been better . 	An upbeat and visually dramatic documentary of children 's ballet , First Position displays the potential of the human spirit when fostered at a young age .
anywhere but here Susan Sarandon adds another milestone to her own path , and Natalie Portman takes a great step on what promises to be a major career . Enough time has gone since Alice Does n't Live Here Anymore came out to warrant another film on the subject . Only in Portman 's performance that the picture becomes something truly special . La cinta no deja de ser manipuladora y con cierta carga de moralidad . Pudo haber sido un producto mucho mejor terminado It 's is a monumentally graceful union of two extremely dissimilar stars , one inspired cinematographer and an exceptionally patient , curious , independent-minded director . Sarandon and Portman give strong performances about domination and coping . An exceptional motion picture . A true-to-life examination of the bond between a mother and a daughter , and has universal appeal for anyone who has ever had a parent . An above average production that certainly warrants a visit . Captivating . Refreshingly free of melodrama and calculation , the movie gives Sarandon and Portman ample space in which to study the mother-daughter dynamic , and the results are frequently funny and often touching . 	The strong chemistry between Susan Sarandon and Natalie Portman as a mother and daughter trying to make a fresh start in L.A. helps to elevate Anywhere But Here above its occasional forays into melodrama .
1040798-husbands and wives ... A far more complex and satisfying essay on the subject of infidelity than the overpraised Hannah and Her Sisters . With its relationship angst and Lolita temptations , Husbands and Wives hits embarrassingly close to Allen 's home . But it also hits its comic target . With excellent performances ( Davis and Pollack in particular ) , it 's his finest film since Hannah and Her Sisters . Husbands and Wives comes close to the exquisite stuff of art . In all respects , this is a full meal , as it deals with the things of life with intelligence , truthful drama and rueful humor . Allen in moderately experimental mode . Good , but not one of his best . Too bad that the Allen-Farrow scandal erupted before this movie for it 's one of Allen 's best serio comedies with wonderful performances ( particularly Judy Davis ) , but questions of life imitating art or art imitating life are inevitable while watching it One of [ Woody Allen 's ] greatest films . What Husbands and Wives argues is that many `` rational '' relationships are actually not as durable as they seem , because somewhere inside every person is a child crying me ! me ! me ! It 's fun to watch , interesting to hear , and revelatory to discuss . 	Husbands and Wives is a blistering , emotionally raw snapshot of two marriages self-destructing .
little nicky It 's certainly funny , and may be Sandler 's most consistently funny film since Happy Gilmore . So aggressively juvenile -- make that infantile -- that I feel I should be scrawling this review in crayon . Steven Brill 's direction is pedestrian at best . What it lacks in wit goes double for its ingenuity . Nothing in this ambitious , effects-laden spectacle about family values in hell made me laugh . Not once . This could have been a great film , if only the main performance was not such a dead zone . A motley collection of mistimed gags . The most visually imaginative movie Sandler has made -- but it 's also one of the most mind-bogglingly tasteless . One of those pictures that ought to be a lot funnier than it turns out to be . By all rights and with few exceptions , everyone involved with this movie should be thoroughly embarrassed . 	Despite the presence of a large , talented cast , the jokes in Little Nicky are dumb , tasteless , and not that funny , and Adam Sandler 's character is grating to watch .
diana vreeland the eye has to travel 2012 Although some of the dates and causal events in her life are passed over , the rhythm and style carry the narrative forward until the last 20 minutes , when the film mostly meanders to the finish . There 's something marvellously comic about her , an effect reinforced by her refined yet raucous baritone voice . Makes a compelling case for the late Diana Vreeland as the 20th century 's pre-eminent tastemaker , not to mention one of its most extravagant personalities . The filmmakers ( including her grandson 's wife ) are clearly besotted . Fashion fans will be in heaven . A fashion world Who 's Who offer accolades , while Vreeland 's vulnerabilities are revealed in interviews telling how , ridiculed by her socialite mother as ugly , she invented herself on her own terms . She was a fashion-industry icon and taste-maker for decades , working at Harper 's and then Vogue in an era when magazine publishing was as adventuresome as painting , filmmaking and music . [ Vreeland 's ] influence on twentieth-century culture was large , and it 's celebrated here with affection , dedication and skill -- but very little critical detachment . Her life , and her work , transcended what we think of as `` fashion . '' Diana Vreeland : The Eye Has to Travel celebrates a unique and uniquely determined woman . Raconteuse , epigrammatist , and mythomaniac , peerless fashion editor Diana Vreeland ( 1903-89 ) might have loved words as much as she loved Balenciaga . What makes this such a joy to watch is not just the timeline of fashion highlights , but Vreeland 's unique perspective on life . 	An affectionate portrait created with visual flair , Diana Vreeland is entertaining , informative , and stylish , due in large part to its charismatic subject .
1211183-extract Though not quite as funny as Office Space and almost certainly less quotable , Extract skillfully mines both the workplace and personal space for moments of hilarity . The film is never funny enough , and comes across as dispiritingly mean . Fitfully funny with a low joke-to-minute ratio , Extract plays like two irreconcilable and unfinished sketches , neither particularly fertile comedic terrain . Extract Distills Potent Laughs ... it 's not quite as uninhibitedly ridiculous as The Hangover , the tacked-on moral lesson for which no apology is even attempted . Extract works better as a bunch of miniature observations than as a singular piece , but viewed within the context of Judge 's body of work , it 's a funny and worthy addition to his suburban comedies . Jason Bateman is under-utilized in this underpowered comedy . The film 's performances and a selection of perfectly timed comic conversations are individually better than anything seen in this year 's big comedy hits , The Hangover or Paul Blart : Mall Cop . Judge needed to 'extract ' much more life from his leads . It 's as if a sad little wife and her muted husband took a wrong turn on the way to the funny factory , ending up in some bleak marital wasteland . Mike Judge 's latest comedy is never exactly laugh-out-loud funny but it 's very enjoyable nonetheless , thanks to strong comic performances and a drily witty script . 	Extract has some very funny moments and several fine performances , but the film feels slighter and more uneven than Mike Judge 's previous work .
the lord of the rings the return of the king Jackson 's movies are a triumph of cinematic voice , much like Tolkien 's books are a triumph of literary voice . soul-stirring perfection [ with ] such a rich texture and depth that it is all but impossible to take everything in with just one viewing On the surface , The Return of the King has everything anyone would ask for in a fantasy adventure : larger-than-life heroes , vile villains , cool monsters and battles galore . To say that The Return of the King is this already-classic trilogy 's paramount achievement is to understate things . Pops your eyes , excites your senses and brings you in as close as a whisper for scenes of startling emotion . Not one of the 10 best films of the year , but it would be no surprise if it walks off with many major awards . With The Lord of the Rings : The Return of the King , Peter Jackson delivers a decent ending to his fantasy trilogy -- actually , about 12 endings . With The Lord of the Rings : The Return of the King , Peter Jackson brings his epic series to a glorious finish . And in doing so , he 's made the greatest movie trilogy in cinema history . The second installment was better than the first , and this one is best of all . An immense achievement founded on the enduring themes of loyalty , destiny , and hope . 	Visually breathtaking and emotionally powerful , The Lord of the Rings - The Return of the King is a moving and satisfying conclusion to a great trilogy .
the intern The story is n't even contrived , it 's ridiculous . `` The Intern '' is bizarrely retrograde , implying that every working woman only needs a cuddly Yoda daddy to make it in the world of business . It 's soft in the heart - and soft in the head . The most genuinely enjoyable and likable movie that Meyers-a longtime writer and producer before taking up directing-has put her name to since , oh , I do n't know , 1984 's `` Irreconcilable Differences . '' Nancy Meyers delivers another funny , warm , smart and sophisticated comedy for adults that features Robert De Niro in perhaps his most likeable performance ever . A sugar-sweet , wafer-thin comedy hoping to inspire many hugs across the generation gap . Sharply misjudging how much hand-on-shoulder dad advice is too much , the whole film 's so genial it could smile , and smile , and smother you while it smiles . Starring in Nancy Meyers ' comedy The Intern , is Robert De Niro , improbably cast as an avuncular retiree with a twinkling gaze , an affable -- if slightly twisted -- smile and an abundance of tact . Nancy Meyers is unquestionably committed to her auteurist signature of giving her female protagonists their cake and letting them eat it too . Nancy Meyers , the maven of the upper middle-age romcom , has now cruised ever so casually into senior-itis with The Intern . It 's a typical Meyers joint : breezy farce with touches of honey and commerciality . A touching , insightful and amusing drama based on believable characters and clever ideas . 	The Intern does n't do enough with its timely premise , but benefits from the unorthodox chemistry of its talented leads .
testament of youth A handsomely designed , beautifully photographed , slow-moving , intermittently deeply affecting film . It 's a strictly stiff-upper lip affair that occupies a time when old-fashioned values were being challenged and ultimately changed , in no small measure thanks to Brittain 's strength as a social campaigner . As Vera , the rebellious , moneyed young woman whose dream of graduating from Oxford is deferred when the war breaks out , Alicia Vikander is such a ferociously intuitive performer that you ca n't take your eyes off her . So dull , so respectable , so full of nice touches and pretty things -- Testament of Youth seems like just the kind of film the real Vera Brittain would have no patience for . It spends too much time on tragedies that are inherent to most war films and only begins to explore some of the most interesting parts of Vera 's life at the film 's end . Takes a more challenging route to its female protagonist . Testament of Youth is refreshingly old school in its approach , shunning frantic editing and acting histrionics to keep things strictly British and stiff upper lip . Led by Vikander 's skilled performance , the remainder of the cast fulfil their roles with style , the standout being Morgan 's Victor , whose unrequited feelings towards Vera are subtly handled . Tough-minded and sometimes harrowing . It 's a classy , beautifully shot drama with two very photogenic leads . Yet for me it just felt too tasteful . 	Testament of Youth is well-acted and beautifully filmed , adding up to an enriching if not adventurous experience for fans of British period dramas .
10009460-the road For all the desperation and tragedy , then , the film offers a kind of heroism , set against a frankly grim but also frequently poetic backdrop . The Road , for all its vivid desolation , remains a curiously unmoving experience . This one-note exercise in neo-medieval moodiness eventually dissolves into that perennial and most corny of Hollywood tropes : the search for redemption . A disappointment . 'The Road ' is a courageous road picture and an unnerving dystopian epic , but with great moments of horror , love , and adventure . Considering it 's not so much what happens but how it happens , Hillcoat has made a dynamic film of great impact You wo n't find anything entertaining in The Road but maybe you 'll find something else . A soulful and savagely beautiful meditation on the end of the world , Australian director John Hillcoat adapts Cormac McCarthy 's tale of despair and faith with great delicacy and care . Breathtaking in the totality of its harrowing vision , The Road is an unflinching contemplation on the astonishing duality of the human animal . The visions of the Pulitzer Prize-winning book I read were precisely what I saw on screen . It 's a grind . Each weary , rainy step is agony . Around every corner is more desolation . More destruction . More misery . On it goes until The Road finally hits a dead end . 	The Road 's commitment to Cormac McCarthy 's dark vision may prove too unyielding for some , but the film benefits from hauntingly powerful performances from Viggo Mortensen and Kodi McPhee .
1156246-casanova A horndog who deserves a swift kick where the Venetian sun do n't shine . Hallstrm 's latest is fine but unambitious , content with what it is -- an arthouse trifle for the masses . Forsooth . Thou art better of at another show . The movie treats trysting as comedy and yet is stingy with the laughs . An action-packed life is now the chaste story of a rake whose romantic reformation is supposed to make us swoon . Must love dog ? No thanks . A romantic comedy that only elicits a few sporadic chuckles ; we like Lasse Hallstrom 's dramas much better . Casanova takes the story of history 's greatest self-professed lover ( not counting Wilt Chamberlain ) and drains it of all sexuality or sensuality . Casanova finds [ director ] Hallstrom more inspired , or at least lively and engaged , than he has been in years , and he 's in the company of the actor of the moment . At times ridiculous , at others touching , it 's an entertaining cinematic frolic that both men and women can enjoy . Casanova is a forgettable , dopey enterprise , with what can already be declared the most wasted R rating of the year . Casanova 's tale has been told many times before , but seldom with such light-hearted flair and puckish humor . 	This frothy , oddly bloodless film does a disservice to the colorful life of the real Casanova .
freddy vs jason `` Nightmare on Elm Street '' and `` Friday the 13th '' fans ... you are going to LOVE this one ... Director Ronnie Yu knows exactly what 's expected of him ; he keeps the blood flowing and does n't dawdle over the holes in the plot . A far-better-than-expected , late summer thrill ride ... Better than any of the other ten Friday the 13th movies , and places in the upper half of the previous seven-parted Nightmare on Elm Street series . Horror-ifically bad . If you like this sort of thing , this is just the sort of thing you 'll like -- even if it 's finally a lot less terrifying than Dakota Fanning in Uptown Girls . Deeply , proudly unimaginative . Applying 'criticism ' to 'Freddy vs. Jason ' is n't just tedious - it 's pointless . That the anti-climactic finish was withheld from advance reviewers to save the surprise is short for It 's really , really stupid . ... people are cut in two , heads severed off and body parts go flying like a steak dinner at your near-by Benni-Hanna 's . A fun-filled , action packed , horror spectacular ... 	Fans of the two horror franchises will enjoy this showdown . But for everyone else , it 's the same old slice and dice .
dinner for schmucks This may not be the highest achievement of the director 's art -- to exceed minimal expectations -- but it 's an honorable one , and Roach makes the grade . Unless you 're a hard-core Carell fan , this is one Dinner reservation I 'd consider canceling . Barry 's anthropomorphic `` mouse-terpieces '' are exquisite - funnier and more charming than anything else in the film . When scene after scene falls flat , and the film seems a lot longer than it actually is , you know that this is a comedy that just is n't working . Dinner for Schmucks has everything that money can buy . That does not include comic inspiration , daring or velocity . Dinner for Schmucks , while not as instantly iconic and defined as [ Jay Roach 's ] previous work , still delivers a lot of entertainment . As summer comedies go , it 's a small surprise . It 's lurching , desperate and borderline incomprehensible -- a movie whose characters act according to no known precept of recognizable human behavior . Like a four-star desert at the end of a hit-or-miss four-course meal , the finale is worth the wait . Some colorful detail and mildly amusing character work ( particularly from Steve Carell and Jemaine Clement ) gets largely lost in a movie that ca n't decide whether it wants to be sour or sweet . 	It does n't honor its source material -- or its immensely likable leads -- as well as it should , but Dinner for Schmucks offers fitfully nourishing comedy .
avatar If only Cameron , who also wrote the script , had spent as much time on the story as he did the effects he uses to tell it . The special effects are so good here that you do n't even notice them . It is eerie how Cameron has made it look and feel like he is just pointing a camera at the action . Avatar is part National Geographic TV special , part Guns 'n ' Ammo bumper edition . . . Along with the eye-popping visuals in writer-director James Cameron 's sci-fi epic , there 's also a lot of eye-rollingly silly stuff . ... a big , dumb movie built to make money but hardly worthy of serious examination . Avatar is n't only critic-proof , it resists serious criticism . You might as well analyze a beach ball . One presumes that Cameron missed the irony in making a preachy , anti-technology movie using the most technologically advanced tools available . Some filmmakers have chosen to portray heightened images with technology , but some are just settling for it . James Cameron has stepped in to show them how it 's really done . Is Avatar worth seeing ? Yes , on a big screen in 3D because it really is spectacular . The Na'vi are more expressive than any previous examples of motioncapture technology , except Gollum in The Lord Of The Rings . Avatar may be a technical masterpiece , but there are deep storytelling flaws that keep the film from working as the complete experience promised by the visual expertise . One of the most exhilarating , barmy and eye-wateringly gorgeous movies of the decade . 	It might be more impressive on a technical level than as a piece of storytelling , but Avatar reaffirms James Cameron 's singular gift for imaginative , absorbing filmmaking .
crimson tide If this film is based on real events , we 're all doomed . Crimson Tide is pop-action naval gazing at its finest . War Games in the water ; older teens and up . Quentin Tarantino contributes some priceless dialogue , but the wearying pattern of mutinies and counter-mutinies ultimately sinks it . Well written suspenseful submarine drama . What really makes the film a class act , however , is that there are complex characters dealing with complicated issues and it never cops out to simplicity . A big , bold Hollywood movie that wo n't be winning any awards for subtlety but ca n't be denied its popcorn appeal . [ Blu-Ray review ] This film is an excellent nacho-plate movie , waiting to be enjoyed by groups of people who enjoy high-energy , macho thrillers brimming in mood , excellent actors and a unique environment . If ever a picture crackled , Crimson Tide fits the description . For a movie that 's all about a bunch of men locked in small metal rooms , Crimson Tide is mighty engaging . 	Boasting taut , high energy thrills and some cracking dialogue courtesy of an uncredited Quentin Tarantino , Crimson Tide finds director Tony Scott near the top of his action game .
its a mad mad mad mad world [ VIDEO ESSAY ] A classic example of the Screwball Comedy genre . We just lauged and laughed -- in Cinerama , no less . There 's a documentary-like pleasure in watching so many legends of comedy share the screen ... along with the disappointment of watching so many very funny people fail to be funny at all . For every inspired set-piece , there are one or two that do n't work , making this a frequently frustrating watch . Favorite line : `` Why do n't we just shoot 'em down and be through with it . What can you say about a comedy where the Three Stooges are the most sedate people on screen ? Spencer Tracy , Sid Caesar , Mickey Rooney and host of good-old-fashioned-comedy chums cram in the action , but miss the laughs in this frantic bank caper comedy . A huge cast wasted in this interminable mess The comic competition is so keen that it is impossible to single out any one participant as outstanding . Bloated mega-comedy best for its many cameos 	It 's long , frantic , and stuffed to the gills with comic actors and set pieces -- and that 's exactly its charm .
rachel getting married A return to form for Jonathan Demme , acting tour-de-force for Hathaway , and simply one of the best films of the year . Anne is okay , much stronger performances by Rosemary Dewitt , Tunde Adembimpe & Bill Irwin . Lush , rich , cultural music spices already fresh , alive family gathering scenes . This is not just Demme 's most thematically , emotionally and narratively ambitious project since the masterpiece that was `` Something Wild , '' it may well be the best thing that he has done since that film . Rachel Getting Married is one of the most alive things you 'll see all year . It 's a common tale told like we 've never heard it before . It 's the melodrama Robert Altman never got to make . It 's wonderful . Hathaway , DeWitt , Irwin and especially Winger are working at a very high level . So is their director . His intuition regarding how to film this particular milestone event , and the stories unfolding in the margins , turned out to be just right . For all the familiar terrain it plows -- dysfunctional clan comes unglued , regroups -- the movie is not without its sly rewards , one of which is Anne Hathaway . Like any real wedding , it 's fraught with tension and acts as a catalyst to ignite simmering tensions . Director Jonathan Demme , who says he wanted to make `` the most beautiful home movie ever made '' , did n't rehearse scenes before filming . He and Hathaway , as much as Lumet , deserve praise for creating a pariah at once close-to-home and unique . An insightful film with a powerful performance at the core . 	Rachel Getting Married is an engrossing tale of family angst , highlighted by Anne Hathaway 's powerful performance and director Jonathan Demme 's return to form .
de zaak alzheimer Though Memory works perfectly well as a policier , it works even better as a character study of a man losing his edge . In the rather less twisty [ than Memento ] , if nicely kinked Belgian thriller The Memory of a Killer , the title character faces his own dangerous adversary , except that here the enemy hot on his heels is dementia . The movie is tightly wound and expertly unraveled , resulting in a thriller that you 'll remember . A striking , somewhat absurd Belgian thriller ... Van Looy has created a fast-paced and stylish thriller . Director Erik Van Looy has filmmaking chops to spare , and while he has created a sharply shot and crisply paced film , he is n't able to make it all cohere , as the moving parts spin in place without any connection or harmony . Van Looy has done a marvelous job bringing Geeraerts ' detectives and the dying , seminoble hit man to life . A stylish and atmospheric crime-thriller that has an eye for its characters and the social-political environment in which they move . There is n't a single original thought recognizable in the dim bulb The Memory of a Killer 's empty , imitative head . In a summer that has n't seen many good foreign films , The Memory of a Killer is one worth seeking out . 	Even though The Memory of a Killer is standard genre fare , it is also engaging and stylish .
ongbak The time to catch Tony Jaa is now . I have the feeling we 'll be hearing from Tony Jaa again . If you 're a fan of old-style Hong Kong martial arts movies , you should find Ong-Bak a blast . And even if not , you may be surprised at how much dumb fun it is . Viewers who like refreshingly uncluttered actioners will find reward in 'Ong-Bak . ' The only reason to see it is for the action . In that arena , on a scale from 1 to 10 , it 's a 20 . Jaa 's moves are impressive , but the choreography ranges from bland to ridiculous ( as when one dirty fighter resorts to using major appliances as weapons ) . Either you find the goofball , low-tech spirit of the piece entertaining and easygoing or you do n't . Either way , Tony Jaa is a force to be reckoned with . Its plot is pretty much standard-issue . But the action is spectacular enough to allow the audience to overlook that problem . You 'll leave the theater bruised and battered , but you 'll be happy about it . What Jaa does is often mesmerizing . 	While Ong-Bak : The Thai Warrior may be no great shakes as a movie , critics are hailing the emergence of a new star in Tony Jaa , whose athletic performance is drawing comparisons with Bruce Lee , Jackie Chan , and Jet Li .
great muppet caper That first film with the muppet crew had to be a success ; this time it was more difficult . Nonetheless , the caper plot that Henson and company worked out manages to hold adult interest for quite a while . A brisk and consistently funny family entertainment . [ new DVD review ] Muppets in London on a retro musical robbery-romp . Lacks the warm wit of the original movie , but hey , the old-school Muppets were a funny bunch of freaks ! My least favorite Muppet movie . But it 's still the Muppets , so it 's worth a viewing . The usual pleasures are all here , but the puppeteers seemed especially intent on giving themselves logistical challenges this time around . The songs are routine , but the inconsequential plot leaves plenty of time for engaging asides . still the second-best Muppet movie you 'll find The movie contains several more cheery , Disneyesque songs than are necessary , but they are made tolerable by the presence of Kermit and Miss Piggy . We do n't care about some dumb diamond the size of a baseball , and as Muppet fans we 're probably also indifferent to Henson 's ambition to satirize old movie genres . 	The Great Muppet Caper is overplotted and uneven , but the appealing presence of Kermit , Miss Piggy and the gang ensure that this heist flick is always breezily watchable .
a hijacking It 's the second feature from the young writer-director Tobias Lindholm , and it showcases his gift for tightly focused stories told without an ounce of fat . It 's an unshowy , quietly intense drama with grace notes in every scene -- and a hellish punch . This sharp psychological drama should serve as a calling card for the lean-and-mean director Tobias Lindholm . Besides the subject matter , the parallels between Lindholm 's sensitive , slow-moving A Hijacking and Paul Greengrass ' relentless Captain Phillips are few and far between . Suspense here is not created through pomp and explosions , but through watching a fishing crew caught at gunpoint . Through an incoming fax . Through exponentially growing beads of sweat . `` A Hijacking '' is as lean , focused and to the point as its title . There 's no moralizing here , just unsparing realism . Absorbing , realistic , non-sensationalist drama . Through it all , A Hijacking maintains its cinematic grandeur , balancing the open-sky thrill of being at sea with the claustrophobia that comes with being forced below deck for days at a time . In A Hijacking , we watch as talks break down -- at one point , the two parties are communicating by fax -- and are never certain how it will play out . 	A tense , gripping thriller , A Hijacking avoids action movie cliches and instead creates a palpable sense of dread by mixing gritty realism with atmospheric beauty .
toy story 2 Definitely outdoes the first film . It 's the Godfather II of computer animated films . This film shrewdly brings forth two features of contemporary life which everyone suspects but no one seems to be able to prove . Pixar , the animation studio that teamed with Disney for both movies , has broken technological ground since the first Toy Story , and TS2 shows off its newest expertise with one smart visual joke after another . Part of the delight of this sequel its bottomless well of inventive wit . Nigh-on perfect . Not just matches , but actually surpasses a delightful original . As good as Toy Story looks , Toy Story 2 looks even better . Much work has gone into the 'story ' as into the 'toy ' , making this a rewarding return to an indisputable visual treat . Realiza a faanha de ser ainda melhor do que o filme original . Seldom has there been such a brilliant sequel to such a brilliant predecessor . 	The rare sequel that arguably improves on its predecessor , Toy Story 2 uses inventive storytelling , gorgeous animation , and a talented cast to deliver another rich moviegoing experience for all ages .
just go with it 2010 A very funny romantic comedy that nicely combines Adam Sandler 's acerbic sweetness with Aniston 's down-to-earth warmth - and that finds an excuse for Aniston to both play an average person and yet dress like a movie star . I have to warn you , there are two precocious children in it of the species that only exist in Hollywood 's imagination , and they are truly horrible . High concept nonsense of the worst kind , exploiting Valentine 's weekend to earn a bit of cash with a predictable love story and lacklustre Sandler humour . Offers enough hearty laughs to at least be considered a guilty pleasure , even if it still sticks far too close to formula that 's worked for Sandler before . Just go with it -- and take it out of here . Being a fan of Adam Sandler movies is a lot like being a fan of the Baltimore Orioles . Instead of trusting the performances and the potential of the material , it has been loaded with all the same jokes you find in a typical Adam Sandler comedy : fat jokes , gay jokes , crotch injury gags , etc . All in all , the hit-to-miss ratio of Just Go With It is not so terrible . Which is not to say the movie is anything special . A deeply repugnant and mean-spirited movie , and probably the worst film Sandler or Aniston has been a part of , which is saying something 'Happy ' is a lovely , jovial word that becomes something quite vile and abhorrent when followed by the word 'Madison ' . 	Just Go With It may be slightly better than some entries in the recently dire rom-com genre , but that 's far from a recommendation .
dogville [ von Trier 's ] contempt for humanity is becoming harder to hide with stylistic flourish . He does n't even try here , and his arrogance is topped only by his misanthropy . Brutally masterful allegory . It 's precisely [ this ] arrogance that makes von Trier such a dynamic force in modern filmmaking . I hate it , yet I 'm fascinated by the magnitude of the ambition and the failure to realize it . Fails to meet the expectations of its own conceit . Even Von Trier-unbelievers like me , goaded for years by the fatuous , adolescent silliness of his film-making , had to admit that this was an intriguing , technically accomplished and well-acted piece of work . Sarcastic humor , inventive staging and a brutal story combine to give Dogville the force of a bonfire , incendiary and beautiful . For all the ideas being examined , it works as a compelling drama too , and the acting is excellent . It just turns out as an intellectualized meal of hatred and violence and half-baked ideas . What could have been limiting , especially considering the film 's daunting length , turns out to be a daring concept . 	A challenging piece of experimental filmmaking .
sorcerers apprentice Stuck in that unfortunate movie limbo of being too innocuous for its own good . As expected , the CGI effects are over-the-top ( and there 's always a so-what quality to such `` exciting '' scenes ) , but the movie is light-handed and exhilarating ... Ever wonder what the Harry Potter films would be like without an ounce of wit , grace or subtlety ? Wonder no more . A generally joyless pastiche of sorcery history , imitation Potter `` chosen one '' Messianics and mirthless silliness , it 's another in a string of recent black marks against Cage 's Oscar-owning reputation . On a hot summer day , a family trip to the movies can be a time-filler or a time-waster . Apprentice honorably fits the second category . Offers enough endearing goofiness and magic of its own to earn a pass this time . That there are more misses than hits will matter only if you 're above the legal age to drive . If they had just let a little more anarchy in , this could really have been a piece of cinematic magic ... still , it 's enjoyable , does n't outstay its welcome and there 's always a chance they might take it up a notch when it comes to the inevitable sequel . Though formulaic and aimed squarely at the twelve-year-old set , it manages to put together a decently entertaining two hours , thanks in large part to its lead performers . The title character in The Sorcerer 's Apprentice is played by Jay Baruchel , and here things begin to go seriously astray . They do n't ever stop . 	It has a likable cast and loads of CGI spectacle , but for all but the least demanding viewers , The Sorcerer 's Apprentice will be less than spellbinding .
1093551-best man It all cops out at the end as all wedding pics do , but along the way there 's plenty of fine acting , sharp dialogue and sexual intrigue to keep most audiences interested . Thoroughly routine . Malcolm D. Lee has written a romantic comedy that features some very well-defined , likable , but flawed characters . Spike Lee 's younger cousin writes and directs his first feature with the verve and panache of Lee 's own debut , She 's Got ta Have It . A genial ensemble film . Like `` Seinfeld , '' Nothing really happens in this film . But the good solid humor and unforgettable acting power keep `` The Best Man '' fun and ultimately entertaining . Very nicely done all around , a fine motion picture for any old time , but super great for the holidays . An exhilarating love story . The Best Man is a decent character driven effort and a light night out at the movies . This smooth , glossy , enjoyable film showcases an impressive new authorial voice . 	With a strong cast and a host of well-defined characters , The Best Man is an intelligent , funny romantic comedy that marks an impressive debut for writer/director Malcolm D. Lee .
crying game It is original , well-written , well-photographed , well-acted , extremely well-directed and very poignant . In a style of agitated naturalism , Jordan examines poignant matters of life and death , sex and friendship , duty and loyalty , freedom and bondage , manhood and womanhood and all the ambiguous areas in between . Reasons remain to watch this movie : the development of Fergus and the fine performances , most notably Whitaker and Richardson , who plays her character with just the right number of screws loose . [ An ] exhilarating whirlwind of a drama . Do n't read any more reviews . This is a tough film to review without revealing any of the plot twists . Word is going to get around soon about this film . See it first . And do n't tell anyone else either . Here 's a movie that is difficult to outguess , difficult even to describe . The Crying Game belongs to no particular genre , though it is an absorbing thriller and a memorably offbeat love story . A corker from start to finish with its exploration of the choices which define the soul . A spindly , absorbing thriller about politics , ethics , sexuality , and the looseness of identity . Seeing the film twice reveals two completely different viewer perspectives -- a kind of `` before and after '' syndrome -- and like any good film The Crying Game grows richer as it sinks into your thoughts . This film must be discovered as it unfolds : If anyone starts to tell you about it , hit him . 	The Crying Game is famous for its shocking twist , but this thoughtful , haunting mystery grips the viewer from start to finish .
fat girl It seems to be more of a cautionary tale about the sometimes deadly power of human sexuality . Drenched in nasty cynicism far beyond reason . For women , especially those who have sisters , it should be a must-see . Between the scenes of teen-porn that are the film 's main purpose ... Breillat indulges the penchant she showed in Romance for pretentious , idiotic dialogue . Fat Girl is uncompromising and unforgiving , but ultimately more self-destructive than any of its characters . Catherine Breillat 's vision is so deceptively tranquil that love becomes indistinguishable from rape . The ending kind of ruined the film for me . Yet this astounding misstep can not erase the insightful and courageous work that comes before it . No other film released so far this year is likely to generate as much discussion afterward . a stark story with fully-drawn characters and an ending easily despised but not easily forgotten Represents one of the most honest and unvarnished looks at the harsh side of being a teenager since Todd Solondz 's Welcome to the Dollhouse . 	The controversial Fat Girl is an unflinchingly harsh but powerful look at female adolescence .
empire of the sun The best mix in his directorial career between typical Spielbergian flourishes of audience-friendly spectacle and seriousness of intent . Christian Bale blasted away the old paint from what we 've come to expect of kid acting . The movie is always interesting from a narrative point of view . Spielberg is a good storyteller with a good tale to tell . But it never really adds up to anything . Spielberg knows how to tell a story and this one is worth telling . Spielberg seems unable to come to terms with anything real . Empire of the Sun is not as graphic as the hellish worlds of Schindler 's List and Saving Private Ryan , but Spielberg does n't sugarcoat the horrors of war . One of Spielberg 's best films , yet seldom shown . A film that verges on greatness , but -- due to occasional shallowness -- falls somewhat short . Spielberg includes a strand of populist heroism , yet even this fails to dent the awful message . And the budget makes itself seen , as does Bale 's superlative Jim . Spielberg is a virtuoso performer , and virtuosity ca n't be dismissed . But what Empire of the Sun proves is that it can have its limitations . 	One of Steven Spielberg 's most ambitious efforts of the 1980s , Empire of the Sun remains an underrated gem in the director 's distinguished filmography .
bandslam Exceptionally entertaining , but also keenly knowledgeable about music and the history and reverence behind it . Bandslam is more unadulterated fun than it has any right to be . An immensely enjoyable , if predictable , ride . Graff ... stirs in some terrific moments along the way that subvert the genre just a little bit . The movie is too sophisticated in its first hour for preteens , and much too tragically unhip in its second hour for the older teenage audience that might appreciate its pithier wisecracks . There is really just a lot to like here . Whether your nine-year-old niece will care about that is moot - but she 'll definitely resent the poor ratio of musical numbers to clunky , contrived emotional scenes . Graff ... mines some spunky humor and heartfelt characters , all while coloring safely within the lines of the underdogs-reaching-the-top storyline . The performances in Bandslam are uniformly strong -- good enough to make you wish this bunch of charismatic , talented kids had been given better material . Finds just the right tone for its teen struggles and rites of passage , with wit that sometimes gives clichs a big ol ' wedgie , and sometimes winds up on the receiving end . You have to respect any movie that name-checks the Velvet Underground and assumes its tweenage viewers will get the reference -- or ask their parents later . 	Bandslam is an intelligent teen film that avoids teen film cliches , in an entertaining package of music and coming-of-age drama .
abre los ojos Alejandro Amenabar announced himself in the category of the top level of directors working today . When the conceptual rug is pulled out from under the audience and the wacky camera angles start coming fast and hard , Open Your Eyes pays off with some intriguing SF themes . Amenabar may drop the ball with a surprise happy ending , but the real shock is that when Cesar finally opens his eyes , you feel he 's earned it . The cumbersome , fantastical plot twists of its last 40 minutes render the whole thing unfathomable . When they finally reveal the Big Secret , you 're liable to just shake your head -- both because it 's so ludicrous and because you can easily and correctly write the epilogue . That [ Amenabr ] has come up with a film of such visual and structural audacity confirms him as one of Spanish cinemas brightest new talents . This is so smart , mischievous and stylish , you 'll instantly want to see it again . See this far superior thriller instead of the lousy remake `` Vanilla Sky . '' One of the most thought-provoking thrillers of recent years , a film that really does challenge its audience 's expectations and suppositions at every turn . If you 're the type who does n't mind jigsaw puzzles unassembling themselves as you assemble them , if you enjoy enigmas and do n't need explanations , the film just might work for you . 	Director Alejandro Amenbar tackles some heady issues with finesse and clarity in Open Your Eyes , a gripping exploration of existentialism and the human spirit .
corruptor It 's rote baloney , trotting out every dead-stupid cop-movie cliche in the book and doing it colorlessly . The movie 's percussive action scenes hardly mask its lack of inspiration . It surprises by taking us inside Chinatown , where we discover just how sinister and elaborate the relationships between the police and the businessmen can be . Bracingly chilly ! The Corruptor proudly endorses every Asian stereotype in the book ! You probably ca n't blame Chow for The Corruptor . No way he could outmaneuver the director and the writers . The only thing in The Corruptor more catastrophic than the car chases is the script . A half-hearted photograph of the real thing . A familiar landscape of cops , hookers , drugs , gambling and gunplay . Despite a few unlikely plot developments , `` The Corruptor '' is compelling from start to finish The bad messages this film sends out clearly outweigh the positive ones . 	This uninspiring cop thriller does n't measure up to Chow Yun-Fat 's Hong Kong work .
failure to launch i just hated every single character soooo much I thought I was watching the Challenger disaster instead of a romantic comedy . You can positively smell the filmmakers ' misguidedly intent resolution to turn this flick into something that will appeal to 12-year-old boys as well as its targeted chicks . Stars Matthew McConaughey and Sarah Jessica Parker put as much energy , winning smiles and comic business into their roles as possible , but it 's a no-go from the start . ... bvio que queira ocultar sua fonte de inspirao , a comdia francesa Tanguy ; a comparao certamente lhe seria desfavorvel . Oh , what stupid people these are . The stars are pleasant but unexciting , the goofy ensemble has a few moments of hilarity but never catches fire , the laughs are very scattered and the film 's title is a self-fulfilling prophecy . As bland as corn flakes . ... logic be damned if this film needs an artificial catharsis to keep audiences from falling asleep . Failure to Launch is n't about story . It 's about star power . Adjust your expectations accordingly . 	The few comic gags sprinkled throughout the movie fail to spice up this formulaic rom-com .
wallace and gromit curse of the wererabbit The final work justifies every meticulous , monastic , masochistic effort . The Curse of the Were-Rabbit is lively and boisterous , but it also has a quiet heart . The subject matter strains under the weight of a full-length film , even one that runs only 84 minutes . Much of the running time feels padded out . It 's refreshing to be rescued by a bright little G-rated movie with a 24-carat heart . The movie is filled with the usual Wallace & Gromit favorites , from meticulously designed miniature sets to chase scenes , double-entendres and sight gags built around tiny props and the clay figures , which seem quite alive at times . Out of 24 , it 's at least an 18-carrot treat . Two of the funniest cartoon characters ever make a delightful feature debut . It 's a ripping good yarn , to boot , breathlessly paced and seamlessly edited , but most important , resoundingly and surpassingly fun . It is funny , exciting , and it 's a fantastic piece of animation . In Nick Park , Britain has its own authentic animation genius . 	The Curse of the Were-Rabbit is a subtly touching and wonderfully eccentric adventure featuring Wallace and Gromit .
nine queens As clever as a firkin full of simians and as stylish as they come , writer-director Fabian Bielensky has fashioned what may just be at the top of the list of con movies . Delicious deviousness , a tale of con men that successfully cons the audience . So engaging , so entertaining is this Mametian feast of con games and double-crosses that the subtitles seem to disappear and the reel change marks may as well not exist . Evokes the style and flash of the double-cross that made Mamet 's `` House of Games '' and last fall 's `` Heist '' so much fun . Mr. Bielinsky has fashioned a wicked parable of the financial chaos in contemporary Argentina . An elegant and sly deadpan comedy . Will bring a smile and a cheer from viewers who love it when a film cons them , too . Nine Queens is exactly the sort of film Hollywood is always re-making and utterly ruining in the process . See it in this incarnation . A story full of surprises , defined by the use of interesting camera utilization and visual motifs . ... by the time the end rolls around and the final twist has been revealed , it does n't seem entirely plausible . 	Deliciously twist-filled , Nine Queens is a clever and satisfying crime caper .
employee of the month There once was a time not too long ago when Dane Cook was a luminous comedic talent . With Employee of the Month , it looks like that era is over . There 's a crumb of an idea to setting a movie at a mega-mart that makes the Office Space cubicles look like executive suites , but the results in Employee of the Month are toothless . Stand-up sensation Dane Cook 's shot at the big time is an uninspired comedy that works better as a vehicle for his costar , Punk'd 's Dax Shepard . Employee of the Month knows it has a flimsy premise but it simply does n't care . It 's an agreeable comedy that makes its priorities clear : It wants to be funny at the expense of almost everything else . ... there 's ultimately very little here to appeal to even the most die-hard Cook fanatic . Directed by Greg Coolidge with the flair of a training video , Employee of the Month turns work into a game and love into a sporting event . Amy is little more than a pretty face , undermining the film 's female appeal and leading one to wonder if Dukes of Hazzard eye candy Simpson is becoming a trifle typecast . Employee of the Month , which finds its comedic apex in watching cashiers scanning purchases , is disposable filmmaking , with its shelf life already up . The film is such humourless drivel it 's depressing just to write about it . Stocked with unfunny formula . 	Employee of the Month features mediocre performances , few laughs , and a lack of satiric bite .
jungle fever Jungle Fever is not to be underestimated or ignored . Strong and powerful , Jungle Fever dares us to be disinterested , dares us to turn away . There are so many voices you may think you 're swimming through a maelstrom , but thanks to Lee it 's all superbly orchestrated . Lee 's mosaic has some masterful background details but a gaping hole at the center . A smart , very assured film about interracial relations but also about racial misconceptions in general . A thematic follow up to Do the Right Thing , this is a powerful melodrama about the fatal and fateful effects of interracial romance . Lee is never content to show one side of the picture and he attempts to address issues that he 's not even convinced he 's on the wrong side of . Lee is in fine form . However diffuse the movie 's agenda , it is never less than thoroughly involving . In that sense , Lee is a victim of his own high standard . 	Jungle Fever finds Spike Lee tackling timely sociopolitical themes in typically provocative style , even if the result is sometimes ambitious to a fault .
american teen While compelling and nostalgic , American Teen is also like high school because it 's hard to sort out the pure motives of the film Burstein 's goal was to film an authentic senior year of high school . Instead she showed that it 's almost an impossibility . The look and feel of American Teen is authentically 21st century , but the rites of passage it documents are timeless . Except for some obvious staging on Burstein 's part , their ups and downs , doubts and dreams , all feel vividly real . Well , at least more real than anything you see on The Hills . American Teen follows the zeitgeist of documentary filmmaking , where truth is manipulated in order to create an entertaining film , which it no doubt is . Yet the question of its authenticity will linger in the minds of some viewers . American Teen finds the truth in the trite and the cliched : It 's a wonderful look at why growing up is so hard to do . What her cameras capture should n't be construed as truth but rather as scenarios that were cast in stone long before she came on the scene . Does n't take full advantage of the opportunity offered by a year-long glimpse into young lives . One is left to wonder what Errol Morris would have done with the challenge . ... Burstein takes time to let the kids honestly express themselves ; what she finds is both surprisingly and painfully familiar to anyone who has ever survived high school . Even as you watch , though , you begin to wonder how much is real life and how much of what you see was `` staged '' because the teens knew a camera was watching . 	American Teen skates some thin ice with its documentary ethics but , in the end , presents a charming and stylish ( if packaged ) tale .
chop shop An intriguingly original look at one boy 's version of the American Dream , Ramin Bahrani 's third feature is filled with vibrant life , finding drama and beauty in a world that 's hidden from the eyes of most Americans . A film with an incredible sense of place , of space , of how they shape and guide and define us . Shot in August of 2006 , the film 's spare narrative is free of psychology and histrionics . [ Rahman ] Bahrani 's unsentimental film is perhaps most interesting as a look at a colorful , little-known world that has recently been targeted for urban renewal . Chop Shop is an oddity to be stared at thoroughly . What it should be , and what I 'm sure Bahrani wanted it to be , was something to be deeply contemplated . Chop Shop depicts a Third World existence in a land of supposedly unlimited opportunity . Little Orphan Annie Latino-style , with an Oliver Twist ! It 's a near-masterwork of low-budget precision and improvisation , constructed and rehearsed over many months in collaboration with the actors and the entire Willets Point community . Ramin Bahrani 's Chop Shop is a low-budget vrit triumph . Bahrani deftly walks a tightrope toward insight , never falling into safety nets of judgment or unearned sentiment . 	Filled with excellent performances , Ramin Bahrani 's deft sophomore effort is a heartfelt , hopeful neorealist look at the people who live in the gritty underbelly of New York City .
nativity story Inexorably tedious , and full of performances that are either absurdly malevolent in an over-the-top way ( like Ciarn Hinds ' King Herod ) or completely wooden ( like everybody else ) . While Mel Gibson 's epic was a divisive film , it had a visceral impact the new movie lacks . It 's hard to imagine a more faithful retelling , in the religious sense , of the stories told in Luke and Matthew 's New Testament , surrounding the events leading to the birth of Jesus . This is not necessarily a good thing , though . The Nativity Story is no whitewashed Christmas pageant , but it 's no masterpiece either . In their silken robes , the wise men -- like everyone else in The Nativity Story -- feel like participants in an elaborate high school production , one that looks authentic but has no soul . 'The Nativity Story ' is n't religious art . It 's a trinket . Many moments are overpowering and humbling , thanks to the source material . This is not a great film or an especially good one , but I do n't have to remind you where its story ranks among those ever told . It 's not exactly the dullest story ever told , but it 's certainly not the greatest . A perfectly good cast is undone by a mish-mash of thick accents that are at moments impenetrable . lacks a visual stamp ... and a point of view 	The Nativity Story is a dull retelling of a well-worn tale with the look and feel of a high-school production .
madea-goes-to-jail As ridiculous as his films frequently are , Perry , a shrewd yet benevolent showman , knows and loves his audience . Perry brings his own sensibility to every movie he makes and has enjoyed great success by following his own path . But he leaves you wanting more . A tedious melodrama stuck on top of shrill comedy , and the two parts are both the worse off for the combination . The predictable , even absurd twists that the movie takes to reach its happily-ever-after conclusion are amusing , as are the smart-ass quips and disposition of Perry 's popular alter ego . Perry 's playing-to-the-cheap-seats drag shenanigans hijack a morose street melodrama every 15 minutes and haul it into places even Flavor Flav fears to tread . Tyler Perry has brought back the zest in the character that made him a household name . Perry clearly knows what his fans like , and he gives it to them -- by the shovelful . But for those not so tuned to his talents , Madea Goes to Jail is two excruciating hours of hard time . Silly yet crowd-pleasing and forgiveness-themed . Madea does go to the slammer in Tyler Perry 's latest . Problem is , the time she serves is n't nearly as outrageous it might have been . I like Tyler Perry 's movies best when the character of Medea is n't in them . 	Divided between sincere melodrama and populist comedy , Madea Goes to Jail fails to provide enough laughs -- or screen time -- for its titular heroine .
girl with a pearl earring To watch Girl With a Pearl Earring is to sense that one great photograph after another is unfolding before the eyes . The movie benefits greatly from Johansson 's gift for understated delivery , but she 's less assured in this demure , largely non-verbal role than she was as a modern young woman in Ghost World and Lost in Translation . It 's like watching [ fine art ] paint dry . It all adds up to one long , slow -- but very pretty -- bore . Girl With A Pearl Earring is one of those quiet , restrained films that softly haunts the viewer for weeks afterward . It wo n't knock you over , but it wo n't soon leave you either . Virtually every shot in Girl with a Pearl Earring is suitable for framing . A virtual ricochet-fest of eyeball action . Those looks , those glares , those gapes , those gawks ! Unlike a lot of films set in this time period , Girl with a Pearl Earring manages to entertain throughout ... Girl With a Pearl Earring is simply stunning ... Vermeer himself would be proud of the hues and shades Scarlett Johansson brings to this fictional account of his infamous work . Working from an intelligent , understated screenplay by Olivia Hetreed , director Peter Webber ( an acclaimed documentarian ) proceeds with a stunning assurance . 	Visually arresting , but the story could be told with a bit more energy .
elektra-luxx Elektra Luxx only offers a sliver of what made [ Women in Trouble ] one of 2009 's underrated gems . Too ramshackle and sloppy to leave much of a lasting impression . Writer/director Sebastian Gutierrez is all over the map with a bizarre multi-character drama that never really clicks . You sense that the characters , as much as we , are waiting for something to happen . Has some scattered witty notions , but it is not funny . Micro-budgeted sequel improves on its obscure predecessor while giving ample screen time to actresses who do n't get enough elsewhere . The intended colorful irreverence looks a lot like standard indie quirk . An odd but often laugh-out-loud funny mix of absurdist humor , raunchy backstories , and genuine pathos . A porn star 's midlife crisis makes for a limp story in `` Elektra Luxx . '' Gugino and the rest of the mostly female cast clearly savor the chance to strip and swear in a free-play environment , which is a nice way of saying the film is hopelessly flabby and lacks coherence . 	A bizarre sex comedy full of meandering subplots , some occasional wit , and , unfortunately , not a whole lot of funny jokes .
ring two ... should n't Samara have upgraded to DVD by now ? This time the prophecy of The Ring might just come true : You watch it , you die . Of boredom . This tired followup manages to recycle all that was obnoxious about the first movie while abandoning the one legitimately frightening element of the original : the tape . There are no rules : sometimes you can jump inside the TV and other times it 's just being moody . And sometimes strange computer-generated deer show up and trash your car . Familiarity with the material evidently did n't account for much : Nakata 's slice of horror proves only intermittently effective . Provides one or two jumps and they 're suitably creative , but they do n't represent the film as a whole which is , in short , a mess . Just as the director 's creepy gliding camera endlessly haloes his distraught characters , The Ring franchise now appears content to simply go around in circles . barely so-so ... demonstrates that after only two movies this series is already flirting with self-parody . A hemorrhaging film whose greatest sin is that it 's unremittingly dull . A bottomless well of murky wetness out of which no woman emerges unpunished . 	Ring Two serves up horror cliches , and not even Hideo Nakata , the director of the movies from which this one is based , can save the movie from a dull screenplay full of absurdities .
chronicle A strong calling card for the talents of Trank and Landis . I ca n't say the found-footage format of Chronicle was particularly impressive , but the rest of the film is a minor revelation . Somewhere amidst a jumble of fast images and unscripted shouts , I could n't help but feel that this all would have been more effective in a movie that played the material with a more straightforward approach . After being inundated with a bevy of comic-book superhero origin stories , how refreshing Chronicle is . Director Josh Trank does an impressive job of capturing the elation of three young men in the ecstatic throes of discovering they literally can do just about anything . The film , while undeniably energetic and entertaining in spots , is one of those slightly frustrating near-misses that never quite manages to live up to its considerable potential . With great power comes the responsibility to make a decent movie , but the mysterious force running through `` Chronicle '' is the power to supersuck . The finale , indeed , makes a lot of what we 've seen in much more expensive superhero films look stupid . If 8mm and Cloverfield mated , they might produce Chronicle . As pulp sci-fi this Fox release is pretty good , but it 's also commendable for its sensitive depiction of adolescent behavior . 	Chronicle transcends its found-footage gimmick with a smart script , fast-paced direction , and engaging performances from the young cast .
twilight samurai The closing third of the film is magnificent in the way it gathers all we have learned about Seibei , and uses it to bring depth to what could have been a routine action sequence , but is much more . Well worth watching . Deeply humane ... a bittersweet , eloquent tribute to a man who is bent but not crushed beneath the weight of his various competing duties . It 'll touch you like no samurai film has . Yamada has a master 's touch , creating a foggy rural world of hills , rivers , and trees in springtime The director Yoji Yamada 's devotion to somber , everyday detail will test the patience of many viewers of this initially slow-going character drama . Both technically proficient and dramatically satisfying . The film does have some very memorable moments . And Sanada 's convincing performance as the world-weary former man of action certainly helps . This is an old man 's movie in all the good ways : gentle , humanistic , rich with observation , quietly aware of all that ca n't be solved by the sword . The story sometimes slips into soapy territory , but when you think the schmaltz is going to ruin it , Yamada gives it just enough of a twist to make you realize this is not your regular romantic film . 	Samurai epic as a touching drama .
1130343-girl next door What if you were a horny high school geek and a porn star moved in next door ? Your answer will surely outwit anything in this cut-rate Risky Business . Well matched with Cuthbert 's nicely vulnerable performance , [ Hirsch and Cuthbert ] create a believable relationship on screen , despite the contrived nerd-meets-sexpot circumstances . As horny and undisciplined as a 16-year-old , and it 's as formulaic as geometry , but it 's entertaining anyway because it takes that formula and executes it about as well as it can be executed . A lumpy blend of sweet teen romance and naughty , R-rated prurience , this comedy follows the improbable relationship between a high school senior and a former porn star . The movie that 's going to make Emile Hirsch a big star . A stylish , sweet and saucy spring surprise loaded with laughs and unexpected smarts . Endearing , funny and surprisingly satisfying , at least until it begins to self-destruct toward the end . Cuthbert provides a great deal of heart to this alternately lewd and chaste lark . Sexy , silly , sappy and often just plain likeable . If it had been a porn film , at least it would 've been made by people with some insight into the adult-film milieu , as opposed to people with insight into nothing . 	The movie borrows heavily from Risky Business , though Hirsch and Cuthbert are appealing leads .
a field in england Wheatley 's extraordinary film shakes you back and forth with a rare ferocity , but the net result is stillness . Sorcery meets swordplay in powerful low-budget horror movie . Your enjoyment of the movie will be directly dependent upon your willingness to surrender to the strange . Prepare to be mesmerized by `` A Field in England , '' a movie of singular originality . Some of the trippiest black and white imagery you 'll have seen on the big screen for a long time . `` A Field in England '' will likely appeal to Ben Wheatley fans with its combination of drama , horror , thriller and comedy . It 's the English Civil War on magic mushrooms ! At times , the film 's spell breaks , leaving the actors looking like a bunch of Sealed Knot re-enactors going bonkers in a field . For the most part , though , the film 's powerfully unnerving mood taps into dark , deep and very weird currents of English myth . This is a film fumbling for meaning along with its protagonists . This is a film built on sensation , misdirection and randomness . The result can be maddeningly obtuse , but it 's also breathtakingly lovely and genuinely unsettling . 	Recklessly assembled and occasionally compelling in spite of itself , A Field in England showcases a singularly brilliant voice in British cinema .
when harry met sally As played winningly by Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan , there is a quirky chemistry created in their offbeat pairing . What Harry and Sally do -- the true focus of this often funny but amazingly hollow film -- is saunter through the romanticized lives of intelligent , successful , neurotic New Yorkers . Much valued in some corners , but found downright painful in this one . A sweet , cheerfully vulgar , and often very funny old-fashioned romantic comedy . Director Rob Reiner has a killer instinct for setting up jokes and punchlines , and is vastly aided by the performances and chemistry of Crystal and Ryan , as well as crisp supporting work from Carrie Fisher and Bruno Kirby . Offers an often humorous , occasionally poignant view of men , women , sex , love , and friendship . The script is an excellent breakdown of timeless conversations between the sexes ... witty repartee between the two leads , and a beautifully constructed love story that is carefully assembled over time , and gently eases you into the wonder of ... love . During the slow passages , I wondered to what extent the film 's creators are aware of its Woodyisms , and to what degree they feel guilty about ripping Allen off . This is Ephron at her best . Fans of Billy Crystal 's amphibian qualities may be amused , but the rest of us have to contend with a slavish Woody Allen imitation . 	Rob Reiner 's touching , funny film set a new standard for romantic comedies , and he was ably abetted by the sharp interplay between Billy Crystal and Meg Ryan .
grandma 2015 It 's predictable in many places and acerbic in others , sentimental when you expect it and poignant when you do n't . But it stars Lily Tomlin , and that 's all you really need to know . Though it 's loaded with laugh lines , Grandma is saturated in melancholy and an irreversible sense of loss . But `` Grandma '' belongs to Tomlin . She gets under the skin of Elle , creating a complex woman who has lived life on her own terms and is accepting the price she paid . The role could earn Tomlin an Academy Award nomination . Grandma is slender , plot-wise , and Weitz allows a few scenes to get too broad . But many charm with deadpan humor ... or vibrate with a vivid awkwardness . Weitz leaches the tough situations of emotional difficulty ; the sentimental drama is a superhero movie for liberals . This is Tomlin 's movie , and she obliges with a spiky , refreshingly unvarnished performance . Grandma is more benchmark than Hallmark . Weitz 's film moves from clunky domestic dramedy to genuine feminist odyssey . A sublime match of performer and role . Tailor-made for the great Lily Tomlin ... Yeah , the circumstances are contrived , but easy enough to accept as long as they 're forcing interesting dynamics into seriocomic confrontation . 	Boasting a stellar performance from Lily Tomlin and some powerfully empathetic work from writer-director Paul Weitz , Grandma is a dramedy that should n't have to ask you to visit .
1013227-manchurian candidate Mystery drama . Cold-War political farce . Spine-tingling thriller . Read it how you will ... takes us for a wild ride through the mother of all conspiracy theories . Among a strong cast , Lansbury is wonderfully wicked as Shaw 's despicable mother . One of the finest Cold War thrillers ever made . Angela Lansbury [ is ] the most effective actor among a troupe of memorable roles . Do n't bother with Jonathan Demme 's toothless 2004 remake ; the rereleased classic cold war thriller from 1962 by John Frankenheimer packs a harder punch . a benchmark of the United States ' coming of age in the 1960s With a dour , uncompromising view of humanity punctuated by raw violence , The Manchurian Candidate feels post-Kennedy , or like a harbinger of Watergate-era splatter With spry editing and camerawork , [ Frankenheimer ] fuses together a documentary-like realism and more expressive stylizations to create a hybrid thriller-satire A dazzling spy thriller that 's still amazing . Cold War thriller still packs a punch 40 years later . 	A classic blend of satire and political thriller that was uncomfortably prescient in its own time , The Manchurian Candidate remains distressingly relevant today .
x men days of future past With director Bryan Singer comfortably back in the saddle , there 's a wondrous sense of scale about this ambitious Marvel adventure as the element of time travel to the 70 's offers a springboard for unbridled creativity and imagination . Unfortunately , after initially running hot with breathtaking 3D effects and a fascinating premise , Days Of Future Past gradually cools into an unnecessarily convoluted , compromised product . It trots along at a fair old pace , the cast doing a sterling job of keeping straight faces while spouting quasi-scientific gobbledegook . It 's significantly better than most of the previous `` X-Men '' outings . Most important , there is an emotional undercurrent in this installment that the earlier films only aspired to . ( ... ) one of the stars showboat nor are they overshadowed by the mind-blowing special effects . Could have been so much more if not for the relentless focus on Wolverine and Magneto . While their performances were good , just sucked the life out of the film . Felt like a retread of the far superior X-Men : First Class . That Singer fellow sure can make an X-Men movie . This could have easily been one of those blockbusters that seemed tantalizing in the crowded hallways of Comic-Con yet resulted in a convoluted disaster . What we have here is an electrifying ride that grips until its last frame . Some sequels have such a complicated back story they should come with printed footnotes . The latest sequel in the `` X-Men '' series requires an encyclopedia that can be read in a fun-house mirror . 	X-Men : Days of Future Past combines the best elements of the series to produce a satisfyingly fast-paced outing that ranks among the franchise 's finest installments .
the runaways Really , how can you not love Joan Jett weeing on a guitar then slipping over in her own piss ? It 's Frank Spencer meets Sid Vicious . Cherry Bombs implode in this revealing biopic of teenage rockers on the edge in The Runaways . While Jett and Currie emerge as blurry , half-formed characters , Shannon 's Fowley brings the contradictions the Runaways embodied into sharp , biting focus . Cringe-making fun for survivors of the '70s . The Runaways ( is ) an above-average attempt to illustrate the limited ups and bottomless downs of life in service to the business of show . 'The Runaways ' lacks an anarchistic punch - an authenticity and angst so distinctive of the band 's rock n ' roll revolution . From the actresses gamely doing their own singing , to the grubby , fumbling sex scenes , The Runaways breathlessly seethes with hard fought authenticity . What begins as a sexually charged , energetic rock love story featuring two actresses pouring their souls into two iconic characters grinds to a halt beyond act one . The problem is n't that it hits so many traditional rock biopic notes . The problem is that it purports to tell the story of a manufactured 70 's all girl band and , when it 's over , the character you remember most vividly is the guy who did the manufacturing . Kristen Stewart and Dakota Fanning power the film through its lulls by the sheer force of their performances . 	Viewers expecting an in-depth biopic will be disappointed , but The Runaways is as electric as the band 's music , largely thanks to strong performances from Michael Shannon , Dakota Fanning , and Kristen Stewart .
10012044-life as we know it Veers not an inch off Hollywood 's well-worn rom-com path . A potentially touching drama compromised by rom-com routine and defined by the type of sparks that rocks give off when clashed together often enough . Thanks to smart casting and sharp direction this story of a mismatched pair thrown together to parent an orphaned baby is really quite funny and heartfelt . In years to come , Life as We Know It may be used as a prime example of `` mediocre '' in Merriam-Webster 's updated dictionary . May please romantic comedy fans but Heigl and the plot are downers ; Duhamel escapes with his career intact . It 's not as bad as it sounds . It 's much worse . Shallow yet sweetly sentimental , it 's a mildly amusing date movie ... not exactly fresh yet not completely rotten . For every moment the screenplay by Ian Deitchman and Kristin Rusk Robinson gets right , there are two more to make you cringe in embarrassment . A comedy as disposable -- and stinky -- as loaded Pampers . Genuinely heartfelt and surprisingly effective in the departments of both laughs and tears , and represents an uptick in the notably declining career of star Katherine Heigl . 	Katherine Heigl and Josh Duhamel make a charming couple with plenty of chemistry , but that is n't enough to make up for Life as We Know It 's formulaic plot and poorly written script .
1078028-hercules This film is good enough to see , no matter what message Disney is brainwashing the youth of America with . Man , am I glad to see John Musker and Ron Clements ' work back on the screen ! Pretty appalling . Woods as the ever-exasperated Hades is the comic highlight , bringing an acrid wit to the proceedings , thereby balancing out some of the over-the-top feel-good elements indigenous to the genre . What fun ! Filled with rich , classical visual imagery and zips along with thoroughly modern mischief . Exhilarating . Jumps into the ancient legends feet-first , cheerfully tossing out what wo n't fit and combining what 's left into a new look and a lighthearted style . Hercules fires off mythology in-jokes and pop culture references at a speed that would dizzy the Animaniacs . Hercules has the dubious distinction of being the least-enchanting cartoon Disney has fashioned in over a decade . 	Fast-paced and packed with dozens of pop culture references , Hercules might not measure up with the true classics of the Disney pantheon , but it 's still plenty of fun .
cyrus Mark and Jay Duplass have created an oddly original yet weird and natural film that interestingly balances out comedy and drama . A shrewd and subtle film about two men who are more alike than they know . Cyrus is not the jokey , polished production you would expect from its Hollywood cast and LA setting , but audiences who are comfortable with discomfort should find it `` funny . '' A humorous experiment in social discomfort . While it may not sound like a romcom , it 's a textbook example of how to do one properly , given that it 's painfully funny and surprisingly heartfelt . ... still had me guessing at the final fade , which is something I ca n't say about any other Hollywood comedy so far this year , and something I wish I could say more often . Jonah Hill plays manipulative-possessive-needy to good sly effect as the strange-funny Cyrus . John C. Reilly gives his most naturalistic , human-scaled performance since his '90s work with P.T . Anderson . Another entry in the funcomfortable genre of awkward comedy , this one would make a great anti-nice double feature with the Ben Stiller-starring Greenberg . full review at Movies for the Masses 	While it may strike some viewers as slight , Cyrus is a successful hybrid of mainstream production values and the mumblecore ideals of directors Jay and Mark Duplass .
1194515-ice age dawn of the dinosaurs It is not the year for pre-historic comebacks . The lack of real wit in this became a bit tedious . This third entry in the animated kiddie series appears to be more , um , fair and balanced . This is the coolest film of the summer as far as family fun goes . I never thought I 'd get tired of watching Scrat , but Ice Age 3 proved me wrong . None of the Ice Age movies have been particularly brilliant ... Fortunately , Dawn of the Dinosaurs has one big advantage over its predecessors : it has dinosaurs . When the story does get underway , the incident that sets it into motion seems thrown in % u2014precisely what you 'd expect for the third installment in a series that was already tired by the second . Frigidly sluggish yet familiarly diverting Reminded me of the simple fun of old Bugs Bunny cartoons . And that 's what Ice Age : Dawn of the Dinosaurs is able to accomplish % u2014a sense of good old fun . Ice Age series comes fully endorsed as a safe ride for all ages . 	Ice Age : Dawn of the Dinosaurs boasts some excellent animation -- in particular , the dinosaurs are wonderfully realized -- but its story is tired and monotonous .
italian for beginners There 's nothing like this Dane for quiet humor as a replacement for the usual biting wit and cynicism . If there was a flu shot for the blues , it might come in the form of this embraceable ode to loneliness and love regained . A dramatic comedy as pleasantly dishonest and pat as any Hollywood fluff . A funny , relationship-driven ensemble piece that takes the chill out of the Danish winter with a snuggly blanket of humanism . Although Scherfig occasionally strays too far into the absurd , the movie is a refreshing change from formulaic romantic comedies . The film is ripe with infectious character and characters . Scherfig , the writer-director , has made a film so unabashedly hopeful that it actually makes the heart soar . Yes , soar . Scherfig , who has had a successful career in TV , tackles more than she can handle . Italian for Beginners may end up a footnote to the Dogma movement history books , but it 's a most pleasant little addendum . Obligada para impotentes , daneses , camareras italianas , profesores de idiomas , y todo aquel que desee una lengua para expresar su amor . 	Unlike many romantic comedies , the charming Italian for Beginners feels natural and genuinely heart-warming .
mad hot ballroom By turns funny , moving , and most definitely feel-good . This vastly entertaining documentary follows 10- and 11-year-olds as they gain poise and self-esteem through ballroom dancing . Those searching for the perfect feel-good summer movie will go mad for Mad Hot Ballroom . [ It ] may not be a masterpiece ... but it is a heartfelt and very entertaining tribute to a group of teachers and students who want to succeed , if given half the chance . Surprising , delightful and inspiring , Mad Hot Ballroom is an entertaining documentary about 11 year old kids finding a focus and pursuing their passion Offers a rare glimpse of what 's on the minds of pre-adolescent kids . Warm and nearly irresistible , Mad Hot Ballroom might be the summer movie to sweep you off your feet ... Call it the Spellbound of the rumba and swing set . Watching the kids dance is irresistible , but director Marilyn Agrelo is sensitive to the full complex of emotions invoked by the competition . It 's amazing how little we end up knowing about the specific schools and the environment where these kids come from and how much time we 're left watching them look cute . I just wish the filmmaker did a better job putting it all together so it had more meaning as to the big `` educational '' picture . 	This heartwarming documentary will win audiences over , as the sheer charm of precocious , enthusiastic children learning to dance resonates from the screen .
curious case of benjamin button The Curious Case Of Benjamin Button is not just a technical marvel , it is an epic piece of storytelling with an incredible attention to detail . All the intense , pent up passion between Benjamin and Daisy which kept the film so taut and engrossing for an hour and a half is a mortifying drain once they unite and are free to express their devotion . click to read full article A bit of a downer , but profoundly so . Remove `` curious '' from the title and replace it with `` twee and pointless '' , and you 're close to it . What a incredible shaggy-puppy of a movie , a cobweb-construction patched together with CGI , prosthetics , gibberish and warm tears . Fincher treats Roth 's script with a visual bravura and narrative gusto far beyond the usual capacities of the Hollywood mainstream . Benjamin Button is a poetic , virtuoso feat , as eloquent and rapturous as CGI-era cinema gets . A magical and moving account of a man living his life resoundingly in reverse , very loosely based on an F. Scott Fitzgerald short tale from 1922 , it delivers top-notch moviemaking in every department . Captures the sadness and exhilaration of life and puts both side by side in a way that is undeniably moving I 'm not entirely convinced that Fincher has a firm grasp yet on the tender and the sweet , but it 's heartening to see him try -- let alone succeed as well as he does . More than just a film , David Fincher 's THE CURIOUS CASE OF BENJAMIN BUTTON is a genuine accomplishment . It stylistically shows a span of history , carefully orchestrating an evolution of style and mood that tracks the passing years . 	Curious Case of Benjamin Button is an epic fantasy tale with rich storytelling backed by fantastic performances .
hesher Moviegoers will have to admit the movie is true to itself . As played by the spectacular Joseph Gordon-Levitt , Hesher is the id run rampant . Even when the script edges him into Hallmark sentiment , you ca n't take your eyes off him . the film really picks up whenever Gordon-Levitt appears Hesher is a muddle of inchoate feelings that never really grasps the clichs to which it raises its middle finger . [ Susser ] keeps us on our toes , and even when his choices seem flashier than they need to be , there 's a reason for them . Hesher , whose arrival on screen is almost always heralded by a demonic speed-metal riff , is a delinquent sociopath with a heart of gold . That 's the false , rather cloying concept behind this smug indie dud ... An unlikeable main character and a weak narrative flow turn Hesher into a mediocre film . What does he want ? Where does he come from ? Director Spencer Susser appears too intoxicated by the title character to risk peering beyond the enigmatic surface for fear of losing some of his mystery , as mystery is all Hesher has . ... darkly funny and refreshingly blunt , giving a big middle finger to conventionality , and offering a rebel yell that 's hard to ignore . Director Spencer Susser does n't try to make Hesher anything other than a sociopath - a walking , profanity-spewing id - and to his credit , neither does Gordon-Levitt . 	It has a dark sense of humor and a refreshing lack of sentimentality , but like its title character , Hesher is n't really interested in going anywhere .
1067987-casino It 's an ambitious film , but also a scattered , unfocused one . All safe bets are definitely on for Scorsese 's rollicking mob drama Casino ... intense and wickedly wry . Pesci delivers another comedic performance drenched in his trademark caustic vibes The whole package is a riveting account and a well-told story . Production values are brilliant , and as the drug-addict-hooker Sharon Stone gives her best performance , but thematically , Scorsese rehashes grounds that he had explored deeper in previous films ( GoodFellas ) and his approach here is too cold and remote . Martin Scorsese is a master filmmaker , so skilled in the manipulation of imagery he might be the most proficient of active American directors . Simultaneously quite watchable and passionless . Clocking in at three long hours , Casino is an entertaining and engrossing film , but just drags a simple story into a sprawling , epic tale that desperately needs a little trimming . Scorsese proves once again to be a true master of mob drama . Martin Scorsese 's fascinating new film Casino knows a lot about the Mafia 's relationship with Las Vegas . In every way -- from the fantastic sets , rich dialogue , and unapologetic violence to the well-portrayed characters and themes of loyalty and betrayal -- Casino is pure Scorsese . 	Impressive ambition and bravura performances from an outstanding cast help Casino pay off in spite of a familiar narrative that may strike some viewers as a safe bet for director Martin Scorsese .
il divo Should you go into this movie with no knowledge of this slice of history , you 'll not only learn something , but you 'll be so entertained you may find yourself laughing out loud ( when you 're not shaking your head ) . This is a spectacular film about corruption in high places , specifically as that relates to the political life of Giulio Andreotti , seven times prime minister of Italy and a senator for life . Il Divo is as showy as Gomorrah was spare , sometimes taking your breath away with its gutsy leaps of brilliance and sometimes acting like a bratty child desperate for attention . You need know nothing about Italian politics to completely enjoy the fantastical , Fellini-fied , tragi-comic , biographical fun-for-all Il Divo . There is sufficient power in the imagery and performances to make Il Divo worth hacking through . Somewhat singular because of its sheer force of will , but ultimately puzzling , Il Divo is hard to discredit entirely , because it so clearly operates on its own terms . The uncrowned king of post-war Italian politics , Giulio Andreotti , might be the subject of Paolo Sorrentino 's nominal biopic Il Divo , but it is as an incisive portrait of Italian politics in general that it impresses . A stunning piece of work that feels both familiar and completely unique at the same time . If the director never quite gets to the heart of the man , that 's part of his point : Andreotti emerges from the film as a collection of fragments . So much half-digested information is expelled , so many key incidents skate by , that the effect is like being force-fed a history lesson you never wanted to sit through in the first place . 	While the web of corruption in this Italian political thriller can be hard for a non-native to follow , the visuals and the intrigue are compelling and thrilling in equal measure .
hannah and her sisters One of Allen 's best ; all-around great performances , witty with a strong script . The usual fever of adjectives -- terrific , titanic , transcendent -- sounds puny . The tangled web of relationships is very effectively done , but just as affecting is Allen 's portrayal of the city he loves . No matter how passive a viewer you are , how much you attempt to dismiss it or judge its characters , Woody Allen reaches past those sleepy , cynical , or questioning eyes and makes you think as much as any film I 've seen . [ Allen ] treats each character with affection and good judgment as he deals with their weaknesses and sad-eyed smiles . Brilliant but mature comic-drama about an imperfect family . Despite Allen 's wide-spread neuroses , he does not only a fair take on one woman 's issues , but a handful of theirs . Allen`s ear for the strained marital conversation , the fury of a breakup and the tentativeness of starting a romance is impeccable . The plot could easily have been an afternoon soap opera , but Allen has infused it with wit , a superb cast and his usual 'the best direction is the least direction ' style , so that the camera never calls attention to itself . The comedy-drama succeeds as a sharply pointed portrait of sibling rivalry . 	Smart , tender , and funny in equal measure , Hannah and Her Sisters is one of Woody Allen 's finest films .
muppets take manhattan The fact that this plot is not original does not deter you , Kermit , nor should it . It 's still a good plot . ... medium rare ... The movie is breezily fun and every bit as entertaining as its predecessors . Maybe the least-appreciated and best Muppet movie . During the 94 minutes of this delightful movie , the Muppets graduate from college , hit New York , are parted and reunited minutes before curtain-up , with Kermit saved from amnesia by a right hook from Miss Piggy . The Muppets are always great . Heartbreaking plot with a joyous end . The weakest of the Henson-era Muppet movies , but still a charmer . Not as good as the original Muppet Movie , but close . A genuinely fun confection of old-fashioned entertainment . Not as good or as hip as its predecessors , but the Muppet gang remains fairly charming . 	If it 's not quite as sharp as The Muppet Movie , The Muppets Take Manhattan is still a smart , delightfully old-fashioned tale that follows the formula established by the first two movies -- a madcap adventure assisted by a huge group of human stars .
murderball While it 's an effective sports film ... the players and their enormous spirits take precedence over the outcome of the games . Murderball is most entertaining when it is being most honest and unflinching in its portrait of the film 's central figures . I do n't know whether directors Henry Alex Rubin and Dan Adam Shapiro set out to show the jock mentality with such clarity , but that 's precisely what their gripping movie does . You thought Lance Armstrong was hell on wheels ? Wait until you meet the men from Murderball . It 's one of the best sports documentaries to come along since 1994 's Hoop Dreams and is among this still-young year 's best films . In an excellent lesson for documentarians and fabulists alike , filmmakers here show , rather than narrate , their tale in 86 minutes , make the point and know when to get out . Entertaining jock-umentary . Murderball is a rush . Its honesty makes Murderball compelling and rewarding . What makes it so downright entertaining is its subjects ' charisma and strength - both spiritual and physical . A game -- and the people who play it -- comes to bruising , bold life in one of the year 's best documentaries . 	An entertaining and gripping documentary that shows being confined to a wheelchair does n't mean the fun has to end .
plan-9-from-outer-space Only because it 's so awful , it 's good . Unintentionally one of the funniest movies ever made and actually worth the rental price for sheer , silly fun . Pay special attention to the less than authentic gravestones . 'Certos filmes so to ruins que chegam a ser bons. ' . A primeira pessoa que disse esta frase provavelmente acabara de assistir a 'Plano 9 Do Espao Sideral ' . The ultimate cult flick . It all ends with famous psychic Criswell asking the audience , 'Can you prove it did n't happen ? God help us in the future ' . Prophetic . Hardly The Remains of the Day , but some would claim it 's more fun . It is hopelessly inept and incompetent , but has a place in the canon , albeit a lowly one . It lets us know how badly things can go wrong , and how passion is not always enough . What distinguishes Plan 9 from the other contenders for worst film of all time is the movie 's brazen sense of confidence . A giant train wreck of a picture ... ... if you do n't find yourself giggling you 're not of this Earth . 	The epitome of so-bad-it's-good cinema , Plan 9 From Outer Space is an unintentionally hilarious sci-fi `` thriller '' from anti-genius Ed Wood that is justly celebrated for its staggering ineptitude .
presumed innocent Competent , resolutely unflashy . A top-notch courtroom drama that will keep you guessing if you have n't read the book ; even if you have , it is still a very well crafted story . A riveting adaptation of Scott Turow`s novel about a prosecutor prosecuted for murder . A tightly plotted mystery that often threatens to leave loose ends and them very cleverly ties them all together . Based on the bestseller by Scott Turow , this intellectual whodunit begins on a slowburn as the investigation gets under way , before being resolved in a cracking courtroom drama . Pakula keeps the suspense level high throughout and effectively brings off a series of twists at the end . A well-rigged whodunit . When you get right down to it , Presumed Innocent is really just an elaborate version of the standard courtroom drama -- souped-up Perry Mason . On the other hand , this is as good as Perry Mason gets . I mean , honestly . Sabich torching his marriage and career makes perfect sense opposite a full-court-press from the likes of Greta Scacchi . Pakula was no fool . This deliberately paced , almost monochromatic movie reserves its real energy and color for blaming the victim . 	Thanks to an outstanding script , focused direction by Alan Pakula , and a riveting performance from Harrison Ford , Presumed Innocent is the kind of effective courtroom thriller most others aspire to be .
hostel 2 Roth 's slick shock-'em-up sequel is a dispiritingly traditional splat of gristly Grand Guignol . It 's tooled up to outrage , but ultimately numbs rather than grips . The real surprise of Hostel : Part II is how few surprises it has to offer -- that , and how quickly it comes to an ending . Sadly , the director 's proven creative finesse has given way to boring self-imitation . Hostel : Part II gives us the same premise as the first film , changing genders and little else . It 's something of an accomplishment to stage deaths so disgusting , the main reaction is nervous laughter . The general storyline is now repetitive , making the journey of the film lackluster and not worth sitting through , despite the experience of the final fifteen minutes ' gory ending . Social commentary , gore galore , and a truly disturbing denouement : This is Roth 's best nightmare yet . It 's beautifully put-together and it builds to a satisfying climax in which Roth implies that if men are capable of great violence and women are capable of great violence , then that would include just about all of us sitting in the audience , too . Not worth the repeat check-in . Hostel was garbage . Hostel : Part II is that same garbage moved over about a foot on the ground . I was scared , I was creeped out and I was grossed out ... Hostel Part II is damn unsettling . 	Offering up more of the familiar sadism and gore , Hostel : Part II will surely thrill horror fans .
boys dont cry Bittersweet gender-bender tale features great performances . Nail-tough yet poetic . A devastating critique of the hatred , intolerance and bravado that lead to violence in America . The casting is nothing short of brilliant . The film is framed , too unquestioningly , as a transgender Rebel Without a Cause , with Brandon the martyred innocent who dies for her infatuations . Time has made Kimberly Peirce 's dramatic debut about sexual misfit , stunningly played by Hilary Swank , even more relevant and powerful . Teena Brandon 's downfall was not that she chose the wrong identity but that she opted to hang out with the wrong group of people . With its constant juxtaposition of blazing nighttime highwayscapes and the flat Nebraska skyline , Boys Do n't Cry manages to perfectly evoke both a life spent in aimless forward motion and the stifling boredom Brandon was so desperate to escape . It 's the kind of movie that manages to shake viewers at the very foundations of their expectations for what kind of power film holds . Strikingly artful from first frame to last , and filled with tension , power and pathos . 	Hilary Swank 's acclaimed performance pays fitting tribute to the tragic life of Brandon Teena .
mean girls It 's an improvement over the dire Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen , but Mean Girls is nowhere near as satisfying as Freaky Friday . Certainly no film for the ages , but it does have its moments . A surprisingly sweet love letter to teenage gals . a fascinatingly adroit dissection of high school culture It 's as if Waters assembled a bunch of performers ... who were born to be thorns in the flesh of the status quo , and instructed them to remain calm at all times and pursue the happy , morally uplifting ending . Mean Girls is a spiffy morality play set in a Midwestern high school about the sharp edges of gossip and the cruelty of cliques . The distributors did n't try to rook impatient people by first releasing a `` Plain Jane '' edition then waiting six months to release this one . Kind of makes you wish you were back at school . Kind of . Refreshing , astute . Far from perfect , but it has brains beneath its glossy , vacuum-packed beauty . 	Funnier and more smartly written than the average teen comedy .
pokemon the movie 3 If a parent is familiar with the series , watching it is n't torture like the second one was . This does n't mean that going yourself is actually a good idea . Ash and the other Pokmon trainers show up and bring with them a bunch of bad songs and more squeak toys than you can shake a stick at . The colorful , lush backgrounds and some striking , imaginative animation offer ample reward for sitting next to your young ones . A 75-minute sensory assault . The animation does n't display the kind of artistic advances that would compensate for the underdeveloped story . Surprisingly inert and rather boring , at least for anyone who does n't collect the related cards . This one is n't nearly as gut-wrenchingly awful as the first one -- the animation is better . But it 's still so bad it hurts . Certainly parents ' wallets are the lighter for it . Parents should know that some children may be upset by characters in peril ( though no one gets hurt ) . Much to my own surprise , the newest installment of the Pokmon cartoon franchise gets my begrudging respect . 	Critics say that the third Pokemon movie has a better plot than its two predecessors . This is not enough , however , to recommend it to those not already fans of the franchise .
1214097-despicable me A reasonably engaging 'toon that both kids and grownups should enjoy . An improbably heartwarming , not to mention visually delightful , diversion . While it does n't aim for or reach the kind of emotional highs the good folks at Pixar achieve almost effortlessly these days , it 's still a lot of fun and certainly worth your time and money . ( Parental Review also Available ) ... a 3D computer generated tale about a professional villain undone by the love of three orphaned little girls that is witty , funny , visually stylish and heartwarming ... Steve Carrell gives an inspired vocal performance as Gru ... One of the year 's most likeable family entertainments . Despicable Me just about finds the right balance between heart , humour and whizzbang 3D spectacle . Sweet as a lollipop and scoring high on the cute factor ( the Japanese will swoon ) , Despicable Me is a screaming hoot if you 're 8-ish As the gentle story of a lost man who finds his humanity at the same time he discovers love can be a reciprocal emotion , Despicable Me has its heart in just the right place . You can feel the French sensibility ringing throughout `` Despicable Me . '' There is a cool aloofness to the proceedings that gives the film an edge and helps to make its dark humor something unique and unexpected . Clever , funny , and sweet villain-with-a-heart-of-gold tale . 	Borrowing heavily ( and intelligently ) from Pixar and Looney Tunes , Despicable Me is a surprisingly thoughtful , family-friendly treat with a few surprises of its own .
the-secret-of-kells The story is a bit tangled , and there is too much of it packed into nearly 80 minutes , but little kids wo n't be bothered when the animation is so magical . The CGI artwork is masterful and the whole of The Secret of Kells has the appearance of the illuminated manuscript that is at its center . A stunningly beautiful animated feature from Ireland centered around The Book of Kells and the fire power of faith wedded to imagination . Is so wonderfully accomplished that it can stand on its own alongside the Book of Kells as a magnificently beautiful work . No , this is n't a great film , but it is a unique visual experience . This is perhaps the most enchanting and zealous animated endeavor you will see this side of the Pixar lineup . The Secret of Kells is gorgeous work , and its imagery and themes dovetail perfectly : a story about creating art , artfully created . Both glorious to behold and a wonderful tale of the medieval struggle between Christianity and Celtic animism . The look of the film is simply ravishing . A beguiling kaleidoscopic indulgence for the eyes and soul . 	Beautifully drawn and refreshingly calm , The Secret of Kells hearkens back to animation 's golden age with an enchanting tale inspired by Irish mythology .
nosferatu Murnau proved his directorial artistry in Sunrise for Fox about three years earlier , but in this picture he 's a master artisan demonstrating not only a knowledge of the subtler side of directing but in photography . Most likely the first horror film to express something beyond simple chills and thrills . While it clearly moves at a slower pace than most modern films , it is still one of the most beautiful and atmospheric horror pictures ever made . The metaphysical style is most vividly rendered by Murnau 's obsessive use of point-of-view shots , which force a viewer to follow the characters into the abyss of their terrifying visions . Brilliant artistry . FW Murnau 's expressionist horror - and the world 's first vampire film - still casts its long shadow over the history of both Germany and cinema One of the most haunting , atmospheric films I 've ever seen . The best , eeriest , most formally clever retelling of one of cinema 's favorite stories . A visual and emotional treat . As vampire movies go , few are more memorable than Nosferatu , which is not only the first screen version of Dracula , but , in some ways , remains the best . 	One of the silent era 's most influential masterpieces , Nosferatu 's eerie , gothic feel -- and a chilling performance from Max Shrek as the vampire -- set the template for the horror films that followed .
annapolis The United States Navy rejected the producer 's request to film on the Annapolis grounds . Since they were able to see story deficiencies that Disney could not , the studio may want to consider sub-contracting the Navy to write script coverage . Annapolis works because it presses emotional buttons which are virtually foolproof , not because it offers anything new to the audience . Old-fashioned in the most dull , clunky way possible . The bland cast offers their best efforts , but a paint-by-numbers plot can not be saved by pretty crayons . ... an exhausted wheeze of bankrupt cliches and cardboard characters , the kind of film that has no visible reason for existing , except that everybody got paid . This is the essence of this masculine melodrama -- the boys find themselves reflected elsewhere , and fall in love with themselves . This could have just as easily been entitled `` UCLA '' for all the relevance it has to life at Annapolis . Lin apparently tried to combine `` An Officer and a Gentleman '' with `` From Here to Eternity '' and wound up with `` Alice in Wonderland . '' A fantasy with James Franco as a strong male lead and Jordana Brewster as his child-like female boxing coach . Annapolis leaves you vaguely seasick from unearned adrenaline . The editing works to make the climaxes sharp , but in the end your stomach is too empty to keep it all down . If the powers behind this pasteboard mockup of a film wanted to remake AN OFFICER AND A GENTLEMAN , why did n't they just go ahead and do that ? . . . [ I ] f they wanted to remake ROCKY , why did n't they just go ahead and do that ? 	Stocked with leading men who look the part but lacking an iota of original plot , Annapolis is merely a watery shadow of superior seafaring military dramas .
untold story of emmett louis till It seems all too easy nowadays to think this stuff is all ancient history ... Beauchamp 's bracing wake-up call shows otherwise . [ Beauchamp 's film ] has an earnest solemnity that is appropriate to the material . This well-focused , short ( 75 minute ) film will be an eye opener for those who did n't live through the era . For those who did , it will be all too familiar . Beauchamp reaches this point without exploitation or cheap foreshadowing ; there are no dramatic music stings underlying the outwardly innocuous biography before it methodically descends into true American tragedy . There is a patchy quality to the film that leaves us roiling with more questions than it is prepared to answer . Features some sweet moments of reflection by the late Mamie Till during which she wistfully reminisces about the intelligent , curious and animated son taken away from her so brutally and senselessly . The film is a shocking account of the deep-seated racism that existed in the South in the dawn of the civil rights movement . As important for its social and legal implications as for its cinematic qualities , Keith A. Beauchamp 's film about the brutal murder that helped spark the civil rights movement transcends its genre . A painful reminder that reparations still need to be made for what whites have done to blacks in this country . Beauchamp reconstructs the actual crime with disturbing immediacy , and his treatment of how Till 's death galvanized a country makes this short film a good way to commemorate the 50th anniversary of a crime that still has the power to outrage . 	Without sensationalism or flinching from the brutality of the crime , this documentary is an eye-opening call for justice .
meduzot Provides a diverting portrait of modern-day Israel , as the filmmakers eschew history , politics and religion to focus instead on more intimate and universal issues of fate , loss and the longing to connect . An imaginative Israeli film about loneliness , missing persons , and the value of truly being present with others . Jellyfish is the kind of film that will ring true for some viewers , while striking others as too slight and precious . Shira Geffen 's script is a poignant intersection of the regrettable past and the transitions that must occur to move on . In this 60th-year celebration of Israel , this film feels like the whole country . A Cannes Fest highlight , this femme-driven tale ( though decidedly not a Hollywood chick flick ) is the debut of writers Geffen and Keret , who showed quirky sensibility in the Sundance hit Wristcutters and here offer glimpses into contempo Israeli life . conjures up a handful of winsome delights in its brief running time These stories have as their justification that fact that they are intrinsically interesting . I think that 's enough . A film that is fresh in both style and story . [ A ] tightly constructed , cleverly stylized , serio-comic ensemble piece . This festival favourite has moments of promise but Jellyfish is lacking , has an unwillingness to completely contextualize the women in this contemporary setting 	Lyrical , well-crafted and inventive , Jellyfish smartly mixes comedy , drama and magic realism .
1023137-war of the worlds This version has more soul than the remake . Too bad about the wooden cast , the tackily conventional romance , and a draggy religious message ; but at least , given the time it was made , it is n't imbued with Cold War hysteria . This is vintage Cold War-era sci-fi , and one of the best films in the genre . Understandably well-remembered , but its status as a high classic seems more incidental than earned . A classic that should be seen by anyone who really likes genre of science fiction in the cinema . War of the Worlds is a socko science-fiction feature , as fearsome as a film as was the Orson Welles 1938 radio interpretation of the H.G . Wells novel . Some grisly and scary parts . Not for young 'uns . This is an imminently watchable film -- better than many other B-grade science fiction films with similar themes of alien invasion . Though it 's bogged down by a stiff cast , a yawn-inspiring conventional romance , and a sappy religiosity , it remains a landmark in the history of special effects . Incredibly overrated version of the Wells novel . 	Though it 's dated in spots , The War of the Worlds retains an unnerving power , updating H.G . Wells ' classic sci-fi tale to the Cold War era and featuring some of the best special effects of any 1950s film .
three kings Vibrant and darkly funny . Three Kings is a resourceful and even witty film that irreverently reinvents the war movie . It 's a breath of fresh air , but there 's not enough to fill the room . Imaginative and exciting . It gets a little meandering at times , but the direction is rock solid , the acting is great , and the approach is inventive . After wooing the likes of Hawks , Peckinpah , and Pontecorvo , 'Three Kings ' decides in the end to go steady with Ron Howard . Three Kings may not be a pleasant film to watch , but it is intelligent and certainly has to be the best film about the Persian Gulf War yet . A movie in need of pruning , it still provides good entertainment value . Hip , furious , and darkly funny . Russell 's edgy pacing here and the assorted styles he 's adopted create an exciting , restless immediacy . 	Three Kings successfully blends elements of action , drama , and comedy into a thoughtful , exciting movie on the Gulf War .
1095420-high fidelity Instead of 'happily ever after , ' we 're left with a new beginning , a possibility of renewal . I love High Fidelity ! This movie is great , and is recommended for anyone who loves pop music as something more than just the twinkling in the background in your car . It contains too many repetitive scenes . High Fidelity is like listening to a decent , though not exceptional , old LP : if you 're willing to put up with all the pops , scratches and skips along the way , it 's reasonably enjoyable . High Fidelity , with its knowing take on men , messed-up romance and music , is like one long , hook-filled pop song for the eyes . As for Mr. Cusack , there 's nothing potential about his stardom any more . He 's the self-doubting , self-flagellating , self-ironic soul of `` High Fidelity , '' and he 's great . Speaking to camera for much of the running time , Cusack creates an engaging portrait in male insecurity and selfishness as flawed record shop owner Rob Gordon . The material ... is treated so honestly and with such wit that it actually seems refreshing and new . I ca n't see how anyone would not like this film . 	The deft hand of director Stephen Frears and strong performances by the ensemble cast combine to tell an entertaining story with a rock-solid soundtrack .
the lord of the rings the two towers the awe-inspiring battle sequences in this film are nonpareil in contemporary cinema . Peter Jackson and company once again dazzle and delight us , fulfilling practically every expectation either a longtime Tolkien fan or a movie-going neophyte could want . Another masterwork , and it 's going to be a long year until The Return of the King . The middle part of a trilogy is always the toughest to tell . And it 's even tougher in this case , because of our expectations . This movie simply does n't match up to the first . This second installment in the trilogy ends with Gandalf intoning that the battle for Middle-Earth is about to begin . I 'm pumped . This second installment is heavy on battle sequences , which will thrill some viewers more than others.this second installment is heavy on battle sequences , which will thrill some viewers more than others . One fabulous Middle-earth show . In a nutshell , I 'm practically speechless . Much of the movie is exciting . But none of it is as satisfying as what Jackson was able to create in Fellowship , the first film . The film is just a big , gorgeous , mind-blowing , breath-taking mess . 	The Two Towers balances spectacular action with emotional storytelling , leaving audiences both wholly satisfied and eager for the final chapter .
princess bride Patinkin , the most dazzling movie swordsman since Errol Flynn , steals the movie with his athletic grace and delivery of lines like : `` My name is Inigo Montoya ! Prepare to die ! '' For parents who have felt as if they were approaching the Cliffs of Insanity while enduring the inanities of standard kiddie pictures , The Princess Bride may be a godsend . Bride achieves much more than most film comedies . Rob Reiner 's friendly 1987 fairy-tale adventure delicately mines the irony inherent in its make-believe without ever undermining the effectiveness of the fantasy . ... it 's ultimately not difficult to see why The Princess Bride has become something of a classic in the years since its 1987 release . Go watch the film again , right now , ten times , as penace . An effective comedy , an interesting bedtime tale , and one of the greatest date rentals of all time . An unexpected delight for all the family . Cute at the time , better as soundbites now . It is filled with good-hearted fun . 	A delightfully postmodern fairy tale , The Princess Bride is a deft , intelligent mix of swashbuckling , romance , and comedy that takes an age-old damsel-in-distress story and makes it fresh .
1108185-animal I would n't be surprised if teenage boys walked out on this one . OK lowbrow comedy about a man given superpowers by animal organ transplants . What 's the difference between The Animal and every other lowbrow comedy this year ? The Animal is funny . I 'm no fan of injury-based humor , but I guess if there were any actor I 'd like to see pummeled , it 'd be Rob Schneider . Just not funny enough to bother paying for . Its relative modesty lends Mr. Schneider 's deft , ingenuous performance an unexpected glow of innocence . Flat-footed and half-hearted . The premise is a single-note joke that is hardly sturdy enough to support a 90-minute feature . A silly , stupid story with a one-joke comic premise . It 's altogether far funnier than it should be . 	While less offensive and more charming than recent gross-humored comedies , The Animal is still rather mediocre .
jackass the movie I like it . There is a freedom to watching stunts that are this crude , this fast-paced and this insane . A collection of some of the best physical comedy since Moe first smacked Curly on the head . While there is no scientific proof , chances are good your teenagers will leak brain cells by the thousands while watching Jackass . And you might even want to see it with them . Undeniably , this is terribly crude material , and could very well signal the end of humanity as we know it . But it 's funny . This is n't a movie ; it 's a symptom . Jackass : The Movie is a disgusting , repulsive , grotesque spectacle , but it 's also hilarious and provocative . God help me , thumbs up . Candid Camera on methamphetamines . Beer is a source of silicon , a mineral which helps strengthening bones . Offering proof of this is Jackass : the Movie . Best wear a helmet and have some fun . Critics need a good laugh , too , and this too-extreme-for-TV rendition of the notorious MTV show delivers the outrageous , sickening , sidesplitting goods in steaming , visceral heaps . 	There 's a good chance you 'll be laughing hysterically at one stunt , but getting grossed out by the next one in this big screen version of the controversial MTV show .
seymour an introduction More than a musical offering , it 's a study in boundless passion , plus a wellspring of wisdom about art and life from a man who sees no dividing line between the one and the other . Works both as a celebration of Bernstein , whose spirit is at once gentle and boldly generous , and as a way of exploring creativity and the meaning it can have in our lives . Hawke 's gaze is too adoring , but the solitary sight of Bernstein putting together his foldout couch/bed in his one-room apartment is as poignant as his recital of the `` Moonlight '' Sonata . So effective does it close the distance between you and Mr. Bernstein that afterward you may find yourself scanning the streets , hoping to catch sight of him , as if for an old friend . The result is a low-key but melodic production that is also clearly about Hawke 's search for meaning in his artistic career . But that does n't prevent the rest of us from enjoying Bernstein 's sagacity . Seymour : An Introduction is a delightful film experience about the transformative power of art . This cinema study is a gentle tribute from one friend to the other . A cogent and exquisite documentary about Seymour Bernstein , a classical pianist who has spent the last 30 years of his life passing on his wisdom and counsel to his students . Octogenarian pianist Seymour Bernstein is the charming , inspirational subject of this appreciative , occasionally fawning documentary directed by the actor/novelist/filmmaker Ethan Hawke . The film claims to be an introduction , but it 's really a long series of conclusions . 	Seymour Bernstein 's genuineness shines so brightly in Seymour : An Introduction that viewers will forgive debuting director Ethan Hawke 's reverent treatment .
freaks If the heart of the horror movie is the annihilating Other , the Other has never appeared with more vividness , teasing sympathy , and terror than in this 1932 film by Tod Browning . One of the most powerful films ever made about the need for humanity and solidarity in the face of cruelty and oppression . one of the weirdest dramas ever put on screen A masterpiece . If anything , the movie is a fable about accepting others as you would want to be accepted yourself . Unfortunately , the studios and general public did n't see it that way . Today , it 's a cult favorite that continues to resonate -- The Player , Toy Story and Hedwig and the Angry Inch are just a few of the major films to have paid it homage . It has now achieved deserved recognition as a masterpiece . Freaks is worth a look for those with interested in the history of exploitation cinema or the trash/punk aesthetic of the likes of John Waters , but others will probably find it unpleasant and heavy going . A masterpiece of the horror mold , and one that warrants a loyal audience . Pretty pioneering for 1932 , but modern desensitization to such things ( hell , we have Paris Hilton on TV ) mutes the freak-out effect almost completely . 	Time has been kind to this horror legend : Freaks manages to frighten , shock , and even touch viewers in ways that contemporary viewers missed .
before the devil knows youre dead Lumet proves he 's still a master storyteller , and Philip Seymour Hoffman is fantastic . If you are craving a juicy thriller , then put this movie at the top of your list . Old fox Lumet deals out some flash cutting and time frame back-and-forths that , if not the Tarantino tango , are fairly adventurous . While Masterson 's script might come up a hair short , Lumet remains firmly in control : Even at 83 , there 's nothing arthritic about his ability to engage our emotions or our intellect . Lumet navigates the shifting narrative nimbly , and effortlessly handles the plot twists and emotional beats with equal precision . Lumet 's film is a stunner . ... nothing more than a perfunctory thriller ... Before the Devil Knows You 're Dead , the expertly acted story of two brothers and a con gone very wrong , is full of clever little tricks . A sharply acted and highly entertaining morality play . A darkly realistic vision of extraordinary power . 	A tense and effective thriller , Before the Devil Knows You 're Dead marks a triumphant return to form for director Sidney Lumet .
starman Starman contains the potential to be a very silly movie , but the two actors have so much sympathy for their characters that the movie , advertised as space fiction , turns into one of 1984 's more touching love stories . Bridges ' portrayal of Starman can be as hard to take as the lapses in logic . As science fiction , it 's decent enough , but it finds its real power as a weird , offbeat romance . Bridges has rarely been better . Sweet , smart and wonderfully acted . Carpenter is a master of framing for widescreen , and Starman is certainly a forum for him to show off his prowess behind the lens . Provides an opportunity for us to look afresh at ourselves and to ponder what it means to be children of the Universe . In Mr. Bridges ' hands [ his role ] becomes the occasion for a sweetly affecting characterization -- a fine showcase for the actor 's blend of grace , precision and seemingly offhanded charm . There is little that is original in Starman , but at least it has chosen good models . It is n't pleasant to watch a talented filmmaker like John Carpenter willfully distort his personality to fit a commercial ( read Spielbergian ) profile , and only the opening suspense-horror sequences have the weight of real involvement . One of John Carpenter 's best films . 	What initially begins as sci-fi transforms into a surprisingly sweet , offbeat drama , courtesy of John Carpenter 's careful direction .
bamboozled Confused message . Lee himself seems overcome by the somberness of the enterprise . Goes too far in the wrong direction and not far enough where you want it to . Interesting and certainly thought-provoking but not as good as it might have been . Lee 's basing the movie in satire was a smart move because in it he can push the envelope harder than drama or straight comedy would have allowed . Whereas Do the Right Thing left audiences stimulated , at the end of Bamboozled we feel exhausted and confused . Fueled mostly by Lee 's anger at racial stereotypes , but it ca n't run smoothly for 140 minutes on rage alone . Biting satire that , which not quite a masterpiece , works on so many different levels that it 's definitely worth going out of your way to check out . A near masterpiece ambiguously balanced between brilliance and incoherence . At least Lee does bring up a past that everyone , race notwithstanding , ignores at his or her peril . 	Bamboozled is too heavy-handed in its satire and comes across as more messy and overwrought than biting .
frostnixon Sheen and Langella originated their respective roles in the play , and it 's clear why Langella won a Tony for his . Taking its cues from Rocky rather than All the President 's Men , [ Peter ] Morgan 's compact , satisfying drama presents presidential interviewing as a gladiatorial event . Unlike the gargoyle I remember , Langella 's Nixon exudes a seductive charm and vulnerability . He 's the film 's chief virtue , and its biggest flaw . The outcome is n't half as conflicted as you might imagine , though it 's hard to argue that Howard brings anything new to Morgan 's play . Howard and Morgan have transformed this story into something more than an embellished re-telling of recent history . They have shaped a tragedy that is almost Shakespearean in force Whoever would have imagined that two men facing each other in a room , with producers and minders pacing off camera , would make for such suspenseful cinema ? Both leads are outstanding . Langella is especially mesmerizing as the calculating grand manipulator . It 's not an impression of the former president , but a piece of his essence . Estupendo cine sobre periodismo y poltica , que logra fascinar con sus entretelones de una entrevista crucial que es presentada casi como si fuera una pelea de boxeo . Although it all pays off in a potent and revelatory final act rife with insights into the psychology and calculations of power players , the initial stretch is rather dry and prosaic . Add Langella 's transfigurative artistry to the Nixon playbook ( and to Oscar 's ) . 	Frost/Nixon is weighty and eloquent ; a cross between a boxing match and a ballet with Oscar worthy performances .
pitch perfect 2 As second rounds of comedies go , `` Pitch Perfect 2 '' definitely is not perfect . Its script is more than a smidge pitchy . A fun time in the movies , good vibrato on the jokes and excellent rhythm between musical numbers . [ Full review in Spanish ] Pitch Perfect 2 is a very fragmented affair , more a selection of comic sketches than a coherent movie in its own right . Second verse , not as good as the first . Some sweet sisterhood and truly fantastic musical performances get dragged down by awkward , lazy , embarrassing attempts at humor . Hey , at least nobody is sliding around freshly spewed vomit in this one . Small miracles , people . Inspired musical numbers , an uninvested Kendrick and too many ethnic jokes make this comedy a mixed bag . Has its moments , most of them musical . It 's not a disaster by any means , it 's simply just a sequel that could have been better , but could n't quite find the pitch . Really , all the news is good about this sequel : It is , if anything , funnier than the original . 	Pitch Perfect 2 sings in sweet comedic harmony , even if it does n't hit quite as many high notes as its predecessor .
patton It 's Scott 's virtuoso performance that carries the film . Scott strikes an unforgettable figure . As deeply entertaining and fascinating as it is introspective and brilliant . George C. Scott 's intuitive , powerhouse performance paints a complex picture of a steadfast soldier that believed firmly in reincarnation , colorful language , and the glories of war . It 's both fascinating and appalling the sort of extravagant technically superior spectacle that only a big Hollywood movie company could afford to make , and the story of a man about whom only the Establishment could become genuinely sentimental . Superb telling of WWII General George Patton , brilliantly played by George C. Scott . George C. Scott makes for such an unstoppably watchable Patton that ... he makes every single onscreen moment feels like the most vital thing you have ever seen in a movie . George C. Scott 's performance can not be praised highly enough for capturing both the violence and the vulnerability of the Patton personality without degenerating either into vulgar caricature or cardboard sentimentality . War is hell , and Patton is one hell of a war picture , perhaps one of the most remarkable of its type ever made . Remains to this day one of Hollywood 's most compelling biographical war pictures . 	George C. Scott 's sympathetic , unflinching portrayal of the titular general in this sprawling epic is as definitive as any performance in the history of American biopics .
me without you Flat , but with a revelatory performance by Michelle Williams . Although the film deserves some points for trying to describe the intensity of best-friendship between girls , it fails to make them interesting people . It 's too long , too repetitive , and takes way too many years to resolve to be a total winner . A chick movie ? Well , yes , but it 's a whole lot cooler than that one with the Ya-Ya 's in the title . A toxic friendship is examined over the course of two decades and then , contrary to all on-screen evidence , is endorsed . Goldbacher gives us a sense of a real friendship , strained by the need of both women to mature , and embraces the emotional messiness of growing up . `` Me Without You '' is a probing examination of a female friendship set against a few dynamic decades . There are several problems with the development of the narrative . Most important is the unequal allocation of audience sympathy between Marina and Holly . The superficial story never seems to have more on its mind that the costumes . 'If you are in the mood for an intelligent weepy , it can easily worm its way into your heart . ' 	At times ponderous , Me Without You is engaging due to the fine work by Williams and Friel .
sphere Sphere is not trashy , or silly , or exploitative ; a lot of talent has been used to good effect here . But in the final analysis , fine filmmaking can not overcome mediocre material . Somewhere out there , maybe there 's a small cadre of film-goers who will appreciate Sphere 's dubious charms , but I 'm not among them . This journey is a road to nowhere . It was a valiant effort , but in the end it was too unfocused to make a good story . Most science fiction spectaculars these days have second-tier actors and first-tier special effects . Levinson tries second-tier effects , and first-tier actors , but never makes that exchange pay off for the viewer . You ca n't accuse the makers of Sphere of skimping on talent . If only they knew what to do with it . The ending , though emotionally satisfying , collapses under scrutiny . This lack of payoff is a real flaw in a film pitched to a discriminating sci-fi mentality . Packaged as a smart psychological drama , it gradually dissolves into a badly edited action thriller , albeit one obscured by a cast of top notch talent . The only excellence is in the acting , and even then the screenplay puts the characters through so many U-turns that dramatic momentum is impossible . Sphere yearns to be a philosophical epic but it 's final and only edict is so rudimentary as to barely exist : man is not yet 'ready ' either intellectually or emotionally for the gifts E.T . 's are willing to share with us . 	Sphere features an A-level cast working with B-grade material , with a story seen previously in superior science-fiction films .
sarahs key [ It ] is undone by its very premise : that the two stories it tells can coexist in the same film . Sarah 's Key exposes an unfamiliar historical event to compelling dramatisation and powerful visual storytelling . A competent , slightly chilly drama referencing a shameful period in French wartime history . If there is any justice this summer that 's not being meted out by a comic-book superhero , discerning moviegoers will find their way to Sarah 's Key , the moving adaptation of Tatiana De Rosnay 's international best-seller . It 's one of the year 's best- Fine performances and an artful emotional modulation make this drama , which unfolds with the pockets of slack one might expect to find in an adaptation of historical fiction , feel real and lived in rather than mawkish . Clunky , improbable plot developments match equally inept dialogue . The movie makes us care about Sarah , who never existed , rather than the thousands of Sarahs who ceased to exist . Sarah 's Key dutifully follows the template of scores of movies about the Shoah : wringing from atrocity the most unseemly sentimentality . Despite a few miscalculations in tone , Key has more than its share of powerful moments and stinging recollections , with Thomas always there to ground that panic into something real and compelling . As its narrative focuses increasingly on Julia 's story and the toll her investigations take on her family life , the film digs into less and less fruitful territory . 	Sarah 's Key is an absorbing , impeccably-acted Holocaust drama with minor plot issues .
innocence2000 `` It 's a poignant , engaging , romantically poetic adult story , proving that love and passion are ageless . A rich and satisfying film that ignores Hollywood taboos about 'old love . ' Takes a brave look at the need for emotional and physical love , no matter one 's age , and proves a memorable glimpse into the lives of characters who are so often merely forgotten . Cox should be commended for his courage in tackling such a difficult subject -- and doing it with the grace , humanity and realism that it deserves . If there 's a more passionate love story out there , then I have n't had the privilege of seeing it . Mostly mediocre melodrama . It mostly proves that lovers in old age can be as cloying and narcissistic as they are in youth . Films that achieve the dimension of seraphic embrace achieved by Innocence , as it explores a return to first love , are the rarest of the rare . Cox 's own directorial style is innocent , in the sense of being original without ever straining for effect . Arguably the best film about adultery since Brief Encounter . 	Not only does it break ground in presenting a rarely examined age group , Innocence is a well-acted , powerful story about love .
1141102-are we there yet 'Are We There Yet ? ' is an eerily appropriate title for cinema 's first authentic endurance test of 2005 . Is it over yet ? Will the audience follow Ice Cube on this road trip to benign banality ? Here 's hoping he books a nonstop return ticket . Are We There Yet ? wo n't make your day , but it wo n't kill it either . Think twice about getting involved with the woman who reared these two little sadists . Maybe these two rotten apples have n't fallen far from the tree . The strength of Ice Cube 's performance is his willingness to show vulnerability . When he says he does n't like kids , he means it . But when he cares , you feel it . What does Brian Levant have against the stars of Boyz N the Hood ? First Cuba Gooding Jr. in Snow Dogs , now Cube and Nia Long in one fell swoop . Its star Ice Cube remains characteristically amiable , but this thuddingly miscalculated comedy is way beneath him . A silly comedy that provides plenty of laughs for those in the audience who are in the single digits or who can make like they are . The kids never come off as either believable or loveable -- and they 're not funny either . 	This supposed family comedy staring the usually blameless Ice Cube and Nia Long has provoked most critics to write , `` Is it over yet ? ''
red lights Contentious sparks fly off the screen , for Kahn has chosen the most vicious of battlefields for his dramatic grid - an unhappy marriage . Puts a tense , deteriorating marriage on a highway-bound collision course with a killer . A chilling study of brink-of-divorce domesticity and wicked Hitchcockian sexual politics . An eerily affecting domestic drama combining elements of The Lost Weekend with Lost Highway . A splendid evocation of its literary inspiration . Psychologically dense and often unnerving , Red Lights takes you into the most dangerous territory of all -- the twisted mind of a man , whose facade crumbles over the course of an evening . Absorbing and suspenseful . Brings with it everything a movie goer would want in a bracingly adult film . Take a bickering couple , put them in a car , get the driver drunk , add some terrible traffic and an escaped killer , and you 've got `` Red Lights , '' a movie I recommend to no one . Austere little thriller that works its way under your skin even before much of anything happens . 	Red Lights is a taut , character-driven thriller , set against the debris-strewn battleground of a failing marriage .
1042582-aladdin While there 's no doubt Williams brings a new level of energy to the picture , I 'm not sure this Middle-Eastern folk tale is enhanced by a Marlon Brando impersonation . Sweetly spirited , brightly funny and forthrightly romantic , this variation on the classic myth would rank among the most enjoyable Disney animated features even without Robin Williams ' contribution . The results are fun and fast moving , but far from sublime . Evoking wonder and magic , Disney 's animated version of the famous fable benefits from the melodic score , Robin Williams ' voice as Genie , and a colorful gallery of supporting characters . The jokes appeal to all levels of humor but the merriment is so constant that no tastes feel slighted . Aladdin is a marvel of the cartoonist 's art . If just for Robin Williams shenanigans ! Though the lead characters are , as usual , bland , they 're compensated for by a cheeky , entertaining supporting cast . A magic carpet ride , a flight aboard a supersonic little Persian steered by all the wishes that ever were . A magic carpet ride of a movie from Disney . 	A highly entertaining entry in Disney 's renaissance era , '' Aladdin is beautifully drawn , with near-classic songs and a cast of scene-stealing characters .
spanglish Brooks 's study in contrast would have been better handled if he reigned in Deborah 's [ Tea Leoni ] low self-esteem fueled manic nature There are signs that a lot has been cut , and in trimming his film Brooks may have squeezed too tight : his movie needs breathing space . A warmly inviting story that sneaks up on you and grabs you , it 's one of the best movies of the year . ... less like an acknowledgment of the changing American demographic or an essay on the peculiar common madness of parenthood than a particularly dull-witted sitcom Spanglish is a heartfelt , funny , sad , human story about what people want and what they should do ; about culture 's colliding and maintaining their individuality ; and about what parents do for their children . If you let yourself get sucked in , it 's an enjoyable day at the movies Brooks , fumbling around with too many characters and too many issues , ca n't find the heart of the story or give heart to the part of it he chose to focus on . Easily one of the best movies of the year . A performer 's showcase . While the pleasantly sentimental comedy does n't bowl you over with cinematic technique , it 's likely to make audiences happy . Some great lines , some great performances , some very very interesting relational topics , but un-quenching , seldom moving and simply not funny enough to be a comedy . 	Paz Vega shines , and Adam Sandler gives a performance of thoughtfulness and depth , but Spanglish is ultimately undermined by sitcommy plotting and unearned uplift .
forrest gump Judging by the the movie 's enduring popularity , the message that stupidity is redemption is clearly what a lot of Americans want to hear . It 's most successful when it is being off-center , a state of grace it does n't quite have the nerve to maintain . Like the best movie actors , Hanks is a superb reactor . There 's only one word to truly describe Forrest Gump : magical . views the world with such an open eye and optimistic attitude that you 're willing to overlook how much it simplifies complex phenomena just because it makes you feel so good An enchanting and creative parable about a contemporary holy fool whose brand of selflessness is free of reason 's madness and the ego 's frivolous grandeur . As this mawkish conservative movie ultimately goes to prove : ignorance is bliss . Its flaws do n't do it any great harm ; it 's as comforting as an afternoon nap , but also as refreshing . The press kit says Gump brings a rare clarity to what we went through in the '50s , '60s and '70s . But I only saw a pitiful stooge taking the pie of life in the face , thoughtfully licking his fingers . Forrest Gump is never sure of what it is or what it wants to be . 	Forrest Gump may be an overly sentimental film with a somewhat problematic message , but its sweetness and charm are usually enough to approximate true depth and grace .
brotherhood of the wolf Taken as an exciting and expansive cultural bridge , the film is a roaring success . 'Magnfica oportunidad para poder apreciar otro tipo de cine de accin que no provenga de Hollywood , donde la calidad est peleada con la taquilla y la maquinaria generadora de dlares . ' The kind of movie that could inspire a comic book . What a ridiculous film this is . What a brazenly , aggressively , stupendously ridiculous film ! An extraordinary film , although not necessarily a good one . Gans is so willful in blending together his weird selection of ingredients that the whole thing is affably deranged . The movie 's final third is a sloppy cobble-together of B-grade special effects and laughable plot twists that strain credulity . Proof positive that Hollywood does n't own exclusive rights to the `` Enjoyable B-Movie '' . The combatants in pre-revolutionary France could have taught Bruce Lee and Jackie Chan a lesson . A deliriously entertaining film -- part myth , part monster , part The Matrix . 	Brotherhood of the Wolf mixes its genres with little logic , but the end result is wildly entertaining .
square Turns a humdrum backwater into a black hole of crime and punishment . A riveting tale of a small group of people doing very bad ( and pretty dumb ) things , The Square works from beginning to end and stands as one of the best feature debuts of the year to date . Edgerton 's commitment to precise cinematic language provides a reminder that movies do n't have to be reinvented to simply work like gangbusters . For all intents and purposes a film noir of classic proportions , The Square has such a good story it deserves to be seen without knowing too many details about the plot . So I 'll avoid plot points , but to say that it is driven by love , betrayal , greed % u20 Things go from bad to worse to downright disastrous in the enthralling Australian import The Square . The string-along , bad-to-worse nature of The Square affords a distinct , if sour , sort of satisfaction . Yet its construction is a thing of considerable soundness . The script is neatly plotted , though not without flaws . Some developments occur in a rush , as if to distract us from asking inconvenient questions . A debut feature that replaces the Coen brothers ' humor in similarly labyrinthine comedies of errors with Arthur Penn 's grit and Peckinpah 's tense string tuning . While the performances are good , it felt like I had already seen this movie before . Also , if you are looking to root for anyone , you 're going to have to look elsewhere . There is n't a character in The Square you can care about , beyond pity for their foolishness and exasperation with their greed . 	The Square may not quite live up to the modern noir classics that inspired it , but with twists and tension to spare , it comes admirably close .
elephant Elephant hurts you in ways you do n't see coming ; its combination of the orchestrated and the raw gets past your defenses . The answer is there are no answers and the point is there 's no point . A noble sentiment , but one that begs the unfortunate question : why make the movie in the first place ? The minimalist Elephant is not going to satisfy audiences who need everything spelled out for them , but others will find it a refreshing approach to social problems that defy facile explanations . Funcionando quase como um documentrio , Elefante um filme intenso que no hesita em chocar o espectador com a prpria realidade em que este vive . Gus Van Sant 's fascinating , mysterious , semidocumentary meditation on the Columbine massacre is not very satisfying , but it 's still something to see . A film without any easy answers , or answers at all . A living , breathing work that 's distinctively different from the regular hyper-reality of Hollywood films . An intelligent reflection on Columbine , preferring difficult questions to easy answers , with the sort of quiet subtlety that one would never expect from an elephant . A spellbinding piece of filmmaking . Van Sant stretches the lexicon of filmmaking with a stylized technique of cinematic storytelling outside the known genre norms . 	The movie 's spare and unconventional style will divide viewers .
coriolanus 2010 Ralph Fiennes turns one of Shakespeare 's least-loved plays into a slashing , muscular but uneven modern drama in his film-directing debut . Redgrave and Fiennes create sparks and turn this curious Shakespearean adaptation into one of the past year 's richest guilty pleasures . Should shut up the whining voices of Philistines who openly wonder why Shakespeare still matters . Coriolanus roars its way into cinemas with full gusto and without taking any prisoners - like witnessing Fiennes going into thespian battle . Visually and dramatically it works well-it 's Shakespeare by way of Black Hawk Down-but as an allegory of modern-day geopolitics it does n't really go anywhere . In his first film as a director , Fiennes proves that he knows Fiennes the actor inside out , with a self-knowledge that 's rare , even admirable . `` Coriolanus '' is a triumph . It all works extremely well , with the exception of the ugly hand-held cinematography designed to make the war footage look more chaotic but that really only looks jerky . The transposition to present day is confusing and counterproductive , dulling the impact of an otherwise fierce , often unbearably immediate production . In this version of Coriolanus , the battlefield is bleakly urban . As Martius makes his way from one point of brutal violence to a next , as he presses forward during an early combat scene , he is daunting from every angle . 	Visceral and visually striking , Ralph Fiennes ' Coriolanus proves Shakespeare can still be both electrifying and relevant in a modern context .
superbad Bawdy , demented and gloriously feel-good , Superbad is as super as comedies get . Beneath the swearing and the tampon jokes lies a sweet-hearted tale of three chums celebrating the end of their carefree high-school days . This is pure 'situation comedy ' in which the humor and the poignancy emerge from the situations rather than being imposed upon your senses . The bar for teen sex comedies in America has finally been raised -- and not a moment too soon . What is required is a sense of humor . Bring that to the theater with you and you wo n't be disappointed . The best comedy of the summer . Greg Mottola executes Superbad with his characteristically light touch , even if it 's used in the service of filthy sight gags , endless profanity and an inordinate obsession with bodily fluids . I 've seen a few movies that were a little funnier , but I do n't think I 've ever seen so many individual performances that brought more laughs than these three do . A four-letter raunch-a-rama with a heart . A critical mass of these kinds of flicks argues for a new subgenre : `` nerdsploitation . '' Superbad is a successful laugher , no doubt about it , but what lingers afterwards is the poignancy of childhoods reaching an end . 	Deftly balancing vulgarity and sincerity while placing its protagonists in excessive situations , Superbad is an authentic take on friendship and the overarching awkwardness of the high school experience .
for your eyes only Formula , fun Roger Moore Bond . The Bond series ' most superb action assembly , plus a terrific performance from Roger Moore . too down to earth There are quite a few individual pieces of `` For Your Eyes Only '' that do n't quite fit . But to borrow from its Olympic theme , its gymnastic flexibility sure lets it excel in the all-around . The grittiest Roger Moore Bond , it 's an under-rated , gadget-light and stunt-heavy return to Cold War action . First-time director John Glen knows what 's needed to create suspense ... put the series ' trademark wit , women , and song alongside the high-stakes adventure of a more brutal 007 . [ Blu-ray ] Let 's face it : When you 've seen one impregnable mountaintop fortress , you 've seen 'em all . By the end of the '80s , Bond would be viewed as something of a relic , but at least the decade opened with an enjoyable outing . Look , Ma , no plot and poor dialogue , and Moore really is old enough to be the uncle of those girls . Sea and ski with 1981 's Bond in an average outing . 	For Your Eyes Only trades in some of the outlandish Bond staples for a more sober outing , and the result is a satisfying adventure , albeit without some of the bombastic thrills fans may be looking for .
rabbitproof fence Noyce lets the landscape and the untrained young actresses own the screen . Gives us a cause we can get behind : a marathon journey home . As moving as it is hallucinatory , it 's truly a journey through another world . A journey representing a people 's unbreakable spirit . Such an amazing true story leaves many opportunities for overblown melodrama , but Noyce 's naturalistic restraint is what makes the film resonate so strongly . Most haunting about `` Fence '' is its conclusion , when we hear the ultimate fate of these girls and realize , much to our dismay , that this really did happen . Noyce 's greatest mistake is thinking that we needed sweeping , dramatic , Hollywood moments to keep us Despite the grand drama inherent in its narrative , the film pulls back from investing much energy into imparting upon us the gravity of what we are watching . 'Noyce logra su mejor trabajo hasta la fecha , demostrando que lo nico que se necesita es la sensibilidad para contar una historia conmovedora y profundamente humana ' One of 2002 's most memorable imports . Young Everlyn Sampi , as the courageous Molly Craig , simply radiates star-power potential in this remarkable and memorable film . 	Visually beautiful and well-acted , Rabbit-Proof Fence tells a compelling true-life story .
frozen 2013 Frozen is a squarely enchanting fairy tale that shows you how the definition of what 's fresh in animation can shift . A beautifully crafted fable . This may be yet another variation on the usual coming-of-age/sisterhood themes so familiar in Disney movies , but who does those better ? Funny , whimsical and delightful to a fault , it is one of those movies that engages minds of all ages . a new benchmark , a film that fans will find themselves revisiting over and over again The action is set in a chilling landscape but Frozen warms the heart . Not exactly a new royal standard for Disney females , but these two princesses do pack a two-fisted punch about the power of love and waiting for the right person who 's 'worth melting for . ' It feels mostly like a good version of something we 've all seen before , rather than anything new or groundbreaking . It is jolly , spectacular and sumptuously 3D 'd . At times it is actually funny . Hans Christian Andersen 's The Snow Queen is the loose inspiration for Frozen , a celebration of family and the bond of sisterhood set against a beguiling snowbound backdrop . And like Tangled before it , Frozen has all the hallmarks of an instant classic . 	Beautifully animated , smartly written , and stocked with singalong songs , Frozen adds another worthy entry to the Disney canon .
any given sunday Any Given Sunday may fall on its face a few times during the game , but would n't you rather watch a team going recklessly for the touchdown than playing safely for time ? The sensation we get from the blizzard of images and teeth-jarring sound effects is of having our head used as the football . Raucous , violent , in-your-face and occasionally advancing like a punch to the belly . An exhilarating , chaotic film that manages to be both admiring and critical of the game that keeps fans glued to the TV every weekend . We 're reminded that very little movie material is original until actors transform it from cliches into particulars . For those interested in the sport , this football movie is a revealing experience . Almost three hours of this jitter deteriorates from bravura filmmaking to annoying mannerism , and Any Given Sunday ends up less than the sum of its many , often interesting parts . One of the few football movies that really puts you in the action , conveying the ferocity and trauma of the game . A richly composed and well acted ensemble piece ... Stone is n't interested in merely bashing modern football : Any Given Sunday looks at the best and worst of the sport . [ Blu-ray ] 	Sometimes entertaining , but overall Any Given Sunday is a disappointment coming from Oliver Stone .
legally blonde 2 red white and blonde This flick 's lazy attempts at humor -- especially making Bob Newhart say 'fo shizzle my nizzle ' -- fall way short of the original . Witherspoon more or less carries the entire film on her shoulders , relying on her ability to be ingratiating -- but hey , if it works , why knock it ? Once in awhile slipping into too-outrageous sight-gags and eye-rolling set-ups , Legally Blonde 2 is still a laugh a minute with a healthy dose of puppy love May be the worst film I have ever seen with an actress I have previously adored : in this case , Reese Witherspoon . You can almost hear a thud every time Legally Blonde 2 deposits one of its `` jokes '' on the screen . A breezy , largely enjoyable 'fish-out-of-water ' comedy that lacks the zip and freshness of the first film . Legally Blonde was content to tickle you . The new one is something akin to a band that has a surprisingly successful debut deciding to rerecord all their originals and release a 'Greatest Hits ' collection for their second CD . Legally Blonde 2 : Red , White & Blonde has an underlying charm that drags its audience , kicking and screaming to have a good time . Takes the formula from the original 2001 hit and simply lathers , rinses and repeats . 90 minutes of Reese Witherspoon is always worth the price of admission . 	This blonde joke is less funny the second time around .
1110242-collateral damage Cheerfully illogical and very hammy . The result is an 'action film ' mired in stasis . Just another dumb Arnold Schwarzenegger action movie that 's contrived , phoney , and not nearly as much fun as the filmmakers intend it to be . Judged purely as a piece of escapist popcorn fun , Collateral Damage only barely passes muster . The relic of a bygone age , sealed under glass and preserved well past its expiration date . If you listen closely , you can still hear it screaming . Preposterous and exploitative . Without September 11 , Collateral Damage would have been just another bad movie . Now it 's a bad , embarrassing movie . The movie straddles the fence between escapism and social commentary , and on both sides it falls short . It will be remembered less for its generic content than for the real-life events that give it an eerie resonance . Reduces itself to a highly simplified story about an overly aggressive victim , who is conveniently empowered to carry out extraordinary tasks in unknown territories . 	Despite its timely subject matter , Collateral Damage is an unexceptional and formulaic action thriller .
three days of the condor Stars Robert Redford in a thriller for thinkers probing covert activities within the CIA The film still makes a dandy suspense yarn , with plenty of twists and turns . Both entertaining and very intelligent thriller . It 's got the mystery aspect down beautifully , but because I was n't given a chance to get behind the characters and get to know them , I had a hard time getting into the film itself . At its best this spy thriller is tense , engaging and good fodder for paranoids with conspiracy theory fever . The action rarely falters , and at its best the film offers an intriguing slice of neo-Hitchcock . At its best moments , Three Days of the Condor creates without effort or editorializing that sense of isolation -- that far remove from reality -- within which super-government agencies can operate with such heedless immunity . Tense , violent '70s spy movie shows its age . Basically , the film is a throwback to the 60s anti-Bond spy thriller ( a la The Ipcress File ) , except here the genre 's annihilating irony has been replaced by Pollack 's liberal piousness . Makes you wish the makers - and especially the funders - of today 's overblown big budget thrillers could be made to learn from some of the finer thrillers of the 1970s . 	This post-Watergate thriller captures the paranoid tenor of the times , thanks to Syndey Pollack 's taut direction and excellent performances from Robert Redford and Faye Dunaway .
pride 2014 The theme is solidarity against adversity , and the movie is unironically uplifting . Pride overstuffs itself with too many characters and too many subplots , but the impact of these musical moments , along with a stellar ensemble of actors , make this an effective feel-good movie about fighting the power . What 's admirable about `` Pride '' is that it avoids melodrama and leaves you walking out of the theater with a lump in your throat and a smile on your face . Endearing ... With its crowd-pleasing demonstration that the enemy of your enemy is your friend , `` Pride '' should leave audiences smiling and inspired . But it would have been a much more groundbreaking film if it had been released 30 years ago . A dose of tolerance medicine that tastes good . The feel-good movie of the fall . Uplifting , amusing , emotional and always entertaining ... With heart and hope , the film becomes a feel-good triumph of statement and sentiment , equally entertaining , affecting and important . Pays heartwarming testament to the flexibility of solidarity . 	Earnest without being didactic and uplifting without stooping to sentimentality , Pride is a joyous crowd-pleaser that genuinely works .
dead mans shoes The film is filled with deeply unpleasant and stupid people whose vapid speech is largely incomprehensible due to thick regional accents . Is n't a mess , but it 's sure no competition for Winchester 73 , Once Upon a Time in the West or even Kill Bill , films in which payback really is a bitch . Though the story is formulaic , the bleakly naturalistic performances give it an uncomfortable sting . In a swift 86 minutes , director Meadows and co-writer/star Considine give us a methodical , handsome , emotionally intelligent version of the revenge flick . Film plays as a quirky Brit riff on everything from U.S. slasher pics to revenge oaters but without Meadows ' usual psychological complexity . the film is a failure ... does nothing new or especially radical with the normal revenge flick Powerful and intense . A violent and grungy film about revenge . Atuaes formidveis ( especialmente de Considine ) em um filme moralmente ambguo que , ao mesmo tempo em que funciona como maravilhosa releitura de Carter , o Vingador , analisa a natureza retroalimentadora da violncia . Despite the fact that there is little left to the imagination , the movie is enthralling . 	Though enhanced by cramped , gritty camerawork , this unsettling look at violence and revenge lacks the provocative edge needed to give it a substantial kick .
hitcher [ Director Dave Meyers ] leans a bit more on character and narrative than one might expect , particularly in these get-em'-naked-and-kill-em ' days of gratuitously violent horror movies . Not that this is n't plenty violent and gratuitous its own way . The script is bloodsoaked , predictable as well as meaningless , and there is little else to recommend the film unless you 're after mindless shocks and like to be in the company of a couple of youngsters who are made out to be a bit stupid While this new Hitcher has its moments , it just does n't make for as scary or interesting a ride as its predecessor . Despite its Playboy Playmate heroine and corny-as-hell climax , The Hitcher is still more engrossing than most of the other horror redos unleashed on the youth market of late . I 'm talkin ' to you , Grudge 2 . The Hitcher uses every slasher film clich , is frustrating to watch , and ultimately I did n't care about the predictable ending . The new version is an adequate technical exercise ... but the attempts at 'originality ' undermine whatever meager integrity the original possessed . She 's also a little too convincing when she asserts at last , `` I do n't feel anything . '' If Grace has n't been here before , you most certainly have . A guilty pleasure -- but only if you like your action outlandish , your continuity challenged and your guts and gore splattered all over the screen . A depressingly formulaic reworking of a unique cult favourite that should have been left well alone . Stick with Rutger . Why bother remaking a cult classic ? 	Sean Bean tries giving motive and emotion to the hitcher , but director Dave Meyers is more interested in cheap shocks , and gratuitious gore and torture .
this boys life The leads work overtime to make their characters and their relationships pungent , believable , and moving . The film demands ominous electricity between Dwight and Toby , the latter of whom endures various and sundry humiliation and harm at the former 's hands . And there are times when DiCaprio does n't just go toe-to-toe with De Niro but feels just as tall . A powerful if familiar family melodrama with a bravura performance from newcomer Leonardo DiCaprio , who 's bound to become a major actor in the future . De Niro and Birkin are reliable in this atmospheric drama , but it 's DiCaprio who really shines . It is an affecting teen melodrama haunted by twisted treehouse memories . By the movie 's final blow-out , the tension has become almost unbearable though it 's less from curiosity about what will happen to the characters than a feeling that you just ca n't abide watching such abuse a minute longer . Involving , but not finally effective DiCaprio goes toe-to-toe with De Niro , though his spectacular efforts here continue to be overshadowed by his Oscar-baiting in What 's Eating Gilbert Grape . Caton-Jones has an extraordinary find in Leonardo DiCaprio , the 17-year-old newcomer who plays Toby with just the right mixture of ingenuous sweetness and simmering anger . This Boy 's Life is a pencil sketch that pretends to be a full-blown oil painting . 	A harrowing , moving drama about a young boy , his single mother , and his abusive stepfather , This Boy 's Life benefits from its terrific cast , and features a breakout performance from a young Leonardo DiCaprio .
godsend A mix of A.I. , The Bad Seed and a dozen other films , Godsend is n't god-awful , but it 's not all that clever either . Though not an out-and-out bad movie , Godsend is an unforgivably bland one , a thriller without thrills , an exercise in missed opportunities and wasted potential . a series of ludicrous scientific explanations offset by cheap jolts to our nervous system . It is horrible ! Godsend has earned its place next to Gigli , Marci X and Freddie Got Fingered in the movie hall of shame . Soupy , tedious mess . Instead of wanting to make us think , and shiver at the 'what if ' potential , it wants us to worry what happens when Mommy goes down into the basement . Has the sensitivity of a cactus , the ingenuity of a square wheel , and the integrity of a CEO . ... Not quite twisted or compelling enough ... A mishmash of jumpy surprises and creepy portents , with a dash of exposition drivel , some scenery-chewing , and stuff that even in suspending disbelief mode makes no sense . Godsend certainly leaves future filmmakers room to improve the next copy . 	A murky thriller with few chills , Godsend is features ludicrous dialogue , by-the-numbers plotting , and an excess of cheap shocks .
kinky boots [ An ] utterly vapid distillation of a `` true story , '' crammed into the tired old Full Monty formula . Director Julian Jarrold and screenwriters Geoff Deane and Tim Firth trade in hackneyed dualities . The betrayals , reconciliations and revelations are forced on us with clockwork precision , and no cliche goes unexplored . Even in light comedy , Ejiofor is a commanding presence . As queen or king , he rules . Ejiofor 's unbridled confidence sells the character and makes the movie . The main problem is that it 's not very kinky at all . Brit comedy is more warm and quirky than kinky . Do n't miss it . The recipe for this silly , quasi-inspirational British comedy comes from the same cookbook that gave us The Full Monty . It 's Ejiofor who takes the film from the realm of good into something verging on greatness . 	Kinky Boots relies heavily on the Full Monty formula of Britcoms , while playing it too safe in a desperate attempt not to offend . Ejiofor 's performance is its redeeming virtue .
die hard with a vengeance They killed an interesting gimmick in order to squeeze it into an already tired franchise . John McTiernan pulls the stunts off with such finesse that the script problems are almost irrelevant . Holds its own within the steadiness of the trilogy . The best of the Die Hard movies -- Jackson and Willis are terrific together . All in all , it 's a fun movie , worthy of its predecessors , but ranking third of three . It 's a tense , terrifically funny action dazzler with a wow level in special effects that will be hard to top . Put to the sequel litmus test , queasily spectacular Vengeance would only rate a footnote without a strong original to exploit -- or a protracted telephone-terrorist subplot to steal from Dirty Harry 1 . Surpasses its immediate predecessor . Rarely are sequels this good The action , albeit spectacular , is rather predictable and the film nearly collapses in the finale . 	Die Hard 3 : With a Vengeance gets off to a fast start and benefits from Bruce Willis and Samuel L. Jackson 's barbed interplay , but clatters to a bombastic finish in a vain effort to cover for an overall lack of fresh ideas .
captain america the winter soldier 2014 This entry wo n't win any new converts , but anyone already invested in this series is going to have a blast . Among Marvel 's best . A fresh Marvel adventure that stands high above its predecessor and even surpasses `` The Avengers '' in its technique and execution . As weakling-turned-super-soldier Steve Rogers , Evans remains the best reason to see any movie with Captain America in it . a super hero adventure grounded in reality that works on both levels , and a genuinely suspenseful story that harks back to the best of the Cold War thrillers The ninth film in the ever-growing Avengers series has a slightly problematic plot , and it provides more comfort than true thrills , but is most certainly a serviceable entertainment . The plotting is purposeful and the writing tidy . A rousing adventure that will make devoted Captain America fans swoon while also pleasing those who met him only in the first film , but also touches on some hot-button contemporary issues . Miles beyond the great 2011 chapter . Ups the ante in storyline , character development and action , while giving a thrilling setup for future installments . It 's the best of the Marvel/Avengers pantheon since The Avengers movie . Captain America : The Winter Soldier is not a flawless picture , but its portrayal of heroism comes incredibly close to perfection . 	Suspenseful and politically astute , Captain America : The Winter Soldier is a superior entry in the Avengers canon and is sure to thrill Marvel diehards .
vera drake Staunton is brilliant as Vera . Gripping and elegantly told . Vera is the heart of the film , and Staunton gives an exquisite performance . Building up to a shattering conclusion , Leigh 's movie is both outrageously schematic and powerfully humanist . Despite all his care and realism , Leigh has neglected to provide a fully satisfying drama . Despite an occasionally hampering pace , Vera Drake is worth [ it ] because of its impeccably conceived and acted characters and the moral quagmire they present us with . A tremendously moving portrait of a woman whose morality is so simple and pure that discovering a diametrically opposed point of view nearly destroys her . There are few topics that generate more controversy than abortion , yet Mike Leigh 's film seems wholly uninterested in courting debate . Vera Drake delivers what is rarely seen in contemporary films : a deft and sympathetic depiction of a good person whose compassion and kindness are the real thing . Vera Drake is perfect down to the last detail . 	With a piercingly powerful performance by Imelda Staunton , Vera Drake brings teeming humanity to the controversial subject of abortion .
viva riva The un-Tarzan ! Viva Riva ! , however , plays dirty , a buoyant throwback to the glory ( and gory ) days of the grindhouse . All you need is an empty beer bottle to roll down the aisle . Both exotic and engaging , with an earthy edge . But it also has a sophisticated side Viva Riva ! has energy and pace , it 's a pretty creditable attempt at a Congolese The Harder They Come , a blaxploitation Treasure of the Sierra Madre . It 's fun . Viva Riva ! succeeds in being violent , erotic and often funny ... Unfortunately , none of the characters is particularly sympathetic ... A frenzy of double-dealing action , sweaty sex and appalling violence that has some real moments of knife-edge tension . This is on my short list for best movie of 2011 . Considering the obstacles that the director had to face , this is a stunning achievement . This is a film noir for the ages , and as auspicious a debut as the Coen Brothers ' `` Blood Simple '' . The landscape may have changed , but Viva Riva ! 's story is a familiar one . Digitally shot , the film looks great , and the performances ooze charisma . 	Vibrant and violent , Viva Riva is a stylish , fast-paced crime drama .
glengarry glen ross Pacino , Lemmon , Harris , and Baldwin are masters of their craft , and Mamet 's dynamite play rewards them accordingly . Glengarry Glen Ross is interesting to watch like well-performed gymnastics but it never really connects . An utter masterpiece . Brilliantly acted and written , it 's one of the best ensemble pieces of its particular decade . A stage play that never quite makes the transition into the medium of film . Head of the direction duties , James Foley , strings it together well , making it harmonise like the musical piece it has succeeded to be . As you would expect from a Mamet play , the dialogue sizzles . Foley is as adept at managing this intensely psychodramatic material as he is handling an ensemble cast with the combined power of a runaway locomotive . David Mamet 's play about the wheelings and dealings of real-estate salesmen gets dedicated playing from a splendid cast , but gains nothing by the transfer from stage to screen . This brilliant , gutsy film features a nervy script by David Mamet and career-topping performances by Jack Lemmon , Al Pacino , Alan Arkin , Ed Harris , Kevin Spacey , Jonathan Pryce and Alec Baldwin . 	This adaptation of David Mamet 's play is every bit as compelling and witty as its source material , thanks in large part to a clever script and a bevy of powerhouse actors .
kontroll [ S ] elf-assured , totally enrapturing ... makes you realize how few directors achieve such a necessary confidence in their own hocus pocus ... Visually stylish surrealist drama . Antal 's sense of humor is of the terminally unfunny sort . He trades on tired caricatures , cutesy conceits and infantile gross-outs , and the reasons for Bulcsu 's paralyzing angst are left so vague and elliptical , it 's difficult to care about him . A frivolous fable and a fabulous frivol , a lighthearted romp and a dark night of the existential soul-Slacker meets Metropolis . Kontroll is the first work by a director who is clearly gifted and who has found a way to make a full-bore action movie on a limited budget . These pieces come together , but they do n't always fit . One of those hip , self-consciously trippy existential thrillers that blow in from Europe every now and then to rock the world of East Village university students looking for a superficially meaningful event to legitimize their Friday night bar crawl . So unique and memorable that it sits alongside classic first features like Sexy Beast , Reservoir Dogs and Shallow Grave It moves fast , pukes up its guts , then starts sprinting again . Those with a taste for such endurance tests can indulge all they want . I 'll get off at the next stop . In this mature and delicate debut , Antal leaves eough of his film open-ended to give room for thinking . 	Kontroll is a smart thriller that 's dark , gritty , and funny .
fearless Jet Li kicks some serious butt ... in the name of peace . While no `` Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon , '' this chop-socky features Jet Li 's flying fists and feet doing Chinese We Shu martial arts . Jet Li has to be commended for his performance , playing the full range of this dynamic character well . He makes you care about his character as the film builds to its climax . Whatever the years ahead , Li leaves the field he helped expand with honor and glory unsullied . Boldly conceived and handsomely produced , Fearless emits the kind of idealized glow that used to define Hollywood movies . Jet Li says goodbye ( supposedly ) to the martial arts genre with this decent blend of old-school chopsocky and new school superproduction . If this is Li 's epic swan song , it 's a reasonably graceful exit . A honorable send-off No matter how you slice it , Fearless is Li in his prime . Fracassa como exemplar de artes marciais e , o que ainda pior , como homenagem a um homem que inspirou grandes atletas e atores ( incluindo o protagonista desta produo ) . 	Fearless is a brilliantly choreographed , beautifully filmed endcap to Li 's quarter decade of epic martial arts glory .
this christmas A happy Christmas package that more or less ignores the fact that it 's a black American family story Goodwill be stuffed - this is about as appetising as a plateful of reheated sprouts . It 's formulaic and corny as hell , but a top-notch cast keep this festive family drama believable - just . No Christmas cracker but a likable holiday movie , This Christmas is full of seasonal cheer , some witty banter and a raft of enthusiastic performances from its high-spirited cast . Do n't expect realism from this frothy little number , but do expect a bit of heart-warming cheer courtesy of romantic unions , overcome prejudices , reconciled enemies and general peace and understanding . While formula is still the same , it 's quite amusing , romantic , and a delightful holiday treat for a family to enjoy . Here 's a family you 'll want to visit for the holidays . Maybe you 'll event want to stay through New Year 's . If you 're looking for a film that celebrates the holiday spirit , This Christmas would be my first suggestion because it 's heartfelt and not too sweet . A strong wire netting will keep out unwanted super-soaps such as the first , in which a black family in LA proves that being Afro-American is no inoculation against outbreaks of schmaltz and piety . This is a very entertaining movie , despite all the inplausablities , and does n't get down to the insipidness of most Holiday family outings . 	This Christmas features strong performances and a sharp portrayal of family dynamics , but relies too heavily on holiday movie clichs .
2 days in paris Sweet and discreet . There 's great honesty in her portrayal of rocky romance , especially toward the end of the film , when Delpy explores the heartbreak of serial monogamy and its endless cycle of the not-forever . Subtle and off-handed , gentle and relaxed , and utterly hysterical . It often feels a touch aimless , wandering about without much of a plot to rely upon . But in the end , 2 Days in Paris manages to be a pleasant enough diversion . Sharply written , neatly performed and frequently hilarious comedy that manages to be warm and witty . Fortunately for all parties involved , Delpy goes beyond the mere comedy of embarrassment , though to be sure there is plenty of that as well . 2 Days in Paris may seem familiar , with its manic , walking-and-talking rhythms reminiscent of Woody Allen and Diane Keaton in the 1970s . But you never know where it 's going , which is one of the film 's greatest pleasures . An entertaining , deliciously played walk-and-talker by helmer-writer-star Julie Delpy and co-star Adam Goldberg . For this contemporary romantic outing , Delpy serves as writer , director , composer , editor and star . The most surprising thing may be that the film ultimately does n't come across like a vanity project . Partly a study of cross-national relationships and partly a homecoming comedy on Delpy 's part , 'Two Days in Paris ' neatly balances stabs at both America and the French . 	Delpy proves not only to be an adept actress , but makes her mark as a writer and director in this thought-provoking comedy that breaks the romantic comedy mold .
1110561-intimacy Snippets of intrigue reveal themselves too late to salvage the listless storyline . The movie has physical honesty , and reaches for emotional honesty , too . Rylance and Fox , fine actors , bravely grapple through some astonishingly convincing copulation ( did they or did n't they ? ) , and even more bravely struggle with Chereau 's unspeakable lines . The result is a series of accretions to a narrative full of atmosphere that engulfs the characters without giving them adequate motivation or dramatic necessity for what they do . Porno for the squatter set . The movie is gutsy and involving yet frustrating . Intimacy is the movie that the much hyped Baise-Moi should have been , one with explicit and credible eroticism , but without any of Baise-Moi 's unnecessary violence . Contains no great revelations , but a lot of outstanding performances . ... the sex scenes in `` Intimacy '' are more graphic than anything I have seen in any `` mainstream '' movie . It 's acidic and bitter , and , if you 're like me ( that is , a glutton for punishment ) , you 'll eat it up . 	Acted out with both physical and psychological nakedness by its two leads , Intimacy is an unflinchingly honest look at alienation .
gangster-no-1 Seeks to transcend its genre with a curiously stylized , quasi-Shakespearean portrait of pure misogynist evil . It certainly feels unique , and sets itself apart from most American gangster films in its stark refusal to paint the lead gangster as likable or indeed anything other than the vicious socio-psychopath he is . The performances are remarkable . Here 's yet another cool crime movie that actually manages to bring something new into the mix . A film divided into past and present sections that are ridiculously disparate . They crush each other under cars , throw each other out windows , electrocute and dismember their victims in full consciousness . And we do n't avert our eyes for a moment . Even though the story 's a bit scattered , Gangster energetically evokes the hip '60s with groovy split-screen effects and a swinging soundtrack . The movie 's captivating details are all in the performances , from Foreman 's barking-mad Taylor to Thewlis 's smoothly sinister Freddie and Bettany/McDowell 's hard-eyed gangster . Certainly the performances are worthwhile . It 's more than a rip-off of Guy Ritchie 's Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels , but less than the Pulp Fiction-esque genre-bender it aspires to be . 	Gangster No . 1 is brutally violent , yet also compelling .
cowboys and aliens Everything in this movie is borrowed from other movies . This is bone-dry fare ; you can practically brush the dust from your lips afterwards . So in much the same way that 'Transformers ' is essentially a robot war with a few humans stumbling around trying to get laid ; this film should really have been called 'Alien Bracelet Vs. Aliens ... With Some Cowboys Falling Off Their Horses ' . Craig is a bona fide action star who should n't be reduced to spitting out lines like `` Demons took your gold '' in a husky Southern drawl . The movie never makes much of a case for its own existence ; it 's a mediocre western clumsily welded to a mediocre alien shoot-'em-up , and if you allow yourself to think about its treatment of history for as long as one second , you 'll feel insulted . Cowboys and Aliens is an uninspired , third-rate rehash of Western and monster movie lore . It turns genre into formula . Two movies ( and two genres ) for the price of one , this ultimate popcorn movie of the summer is a mishmash by design , in which Bond meets Han Solo/Indiana Jones , though more effective as Western than sci-fi thriller . The Jon Favreau film brandishes a literal-minded title as laughable as the rest of its action . I do n't think too many people are going to wander into the theater expecting The Tree of Life . The film delivers exactly what it promises . It 's like a double feature but with all the boring bits taken out and all the fight scenes run together . 	Daniel Craig and Harrison Ford are as dependably appealing as ever , but they 're let down by director Jon Favreau 's inability to smooth Cowboys & Aliens ' jarring tonal shifts .
tangerine 2015 What 's extraordinary about Tangerine is that it 's everything an entertaining , old-fashioned , mainstream Hollywood comedy should be but no longer is . 'Starlet ' helmer Sean Baker delivers another compassionate portrait of life on the L.A. margins with this big-hearted , low-budget tale of two transgender prostitutes . Its triumph is primarily a matter of style , a visionary revelation every bit as expressionistic as its main character 's electric sense of shade . `` Tangerine '' generously offers something unusual in a summer when relentless conformity could really use a dab of lipstick , a pinch of estrogen and an attitude that says I dare to be different . Tangerine is n't without blemishes , but it rarely strikes you as anything less than a stone-cold original . I do n't know whether a real-life Sin-Dee and Alexandra would approve of the way they 're presented in Tangerine . But I think they might appreciate the dignity these characters award themselves and the ambiguity they 're sometimes allowed . Baker gets great , sly , unforced performances from his two leads , but it 's not all a rollicking good time : There are moments of quietude , inquietude , moments when a sense of wariness and loneliness settles over the women . A reinvigorating reminder of what indie filmmaking can -- and should -- do . Assured and immensely likable , truly independent in story and style . A sneaky slice-of-life indie that comes on all casual and cinma-verit in the early scenes , then slowly coalesces into a romantic comedy as intricately constructed as any door-slamming stage farce . 	Tangerine shatters casting conventions and its filmmaking techniques are up-to-the-minute , but it 's an old-fashioned comedy at heart -- and a pretty wonderful one at that .
dolce vita In sum , it is an awesome picture , licentious in content but moral and vastly sophisticated in its attitude and what it says . What 's incredible about Federico Fellini 's work is its sense of life . Never once does this movie feel constructed or contrived , but rather appears to be unraveling before us , unscripted and uninhibited . Marcello 's journey is a string of remarkable vignettes that delivers fashion and sociology in equal measure . A lovely Italian palette that questions if we can settle down to a life of struggle without having first lived life at its best . Everyone has a favorite scene . I consider it to be one of the greatest films of all time . In spite of its thematic ugliness , this is a stunning-looking trawl through the Italian capital , with Ekberg 's impromptu paddle in the Trevi fountain still the films enduring image . Still a potent , expressionistic launch into post-war Euro-emptiness . There are perhaps a couple of party scenes too many , and the peripheral characters can be unconvincing , but the stylish cinematography and Fellini 's bizarre , extravagant visuals are absolutely riveting . A timeless , bittersweet carnival of severed roots , disintegrating values , lost innocence and dumbing down . Unmissable ! 	An epic , breathtakingly stylish cinematic landmark , La Dolce Vita remains riveting in spite of -- or perhaps because of -- its sprawling length .
teachers pet 2004 A small-scale charmer that gives audiences a healthy dose of silliness . As CGI cartooning takes over the world Teacher 's Pet finds a fresh and frisky approach to doing things the old , Walt way . It was a bad enough TV show ; moving this puppy to the big screen was a huge waste of space . In its own twisted , unique way , this is one stunning film . Weird and lively ; the kind of movie that would never get made if it was n't an extension of a preexisting franchise . An entertaining , irreverent experience for older kids and adults . Will leave kids bored and parents scratching their heads . Gary Baseman 's Emmy-winning cartoon series arrives on the big screen in a delightful blast of bold drawing , brainy humor , and hard-charging songs . Disney 's marvelously quick-witted and gloriously goofy hand-drawn feature gets more laughs out of 74 minutes than many recent live-action comedies got out of much more time . Occasionally clever , but unworthy of being the swan song of Disney 's hand-drawn animation department . Too loud , screeching and annoying . 	Despite its short running time , Teacher 's Pet is a witty and irreverent family film .
police academy 4 citizens on patrol Jim Drake is credited with the direction and Gene Quintano with the script , though they 'd probably appreciate it if you kept it to yourself . More of the same from the wackiest police force on the streets , and their newly recruited civilian helpers . Not a highlight of the series . Loses the fun feel of incompetent cops in a complicated citizen plot . Just when you think American film comedy has hit the bottom of the barrel , it makes a supreme effort and keeps sinking . They really did just keep getting worse and worse . The new players , like the original ones ( who are still here in full force ) , are limited to one-shtick roles and are sometimes even more limited than that . Director Jim Drake keeps things moving so quickly , one barely has time to notice just how stale the jokes here are . What 's so amazing about the Police Academy movies is that they keep being made even though they stopped being funny after the hilarious original . Script is merely a collection of gags tied together by the slightest suggestion of a story . There 's nothing remotely arresting about the recycled and pointless roguish antics being drudged up once again in another tired and tedious Police Academy sequel . This bunch should lock the cell door and throw away the kooky keys ! 	Utterly , completely , thoroughly and astonishingly unfunny , Police Academy 4 : Citizens on Patrol sends a once-innocuous franchise plummeting to agonizing new depths .
the four times It 's both an embrace of the comfort of ritual and certainly and acknowledgement of the magic of the unexpected and the accidental bringing change to routine . Giving all new meaning to the title `` Men Who Stare at Goats '' is `` Le Quattro Volte , '' an example of contemporary Italian neo-realism about taking a long , hard look at our horned and hoofed friends . This is a prime Festival Film , equally beautiful and turgid ; Frammartino has lots of promise , but might be well served by thinking of something smaller than all of Nature . Frammartino uses long , carefully observed takes to capture the natural world and the way the same patterns keep erupting from beneath humanity 's attempts to impose order upon it . Such descriptors as contemplative , deliberate , and meditative fall short of the mark in conveying exactly what 's at work here . The complexities of ordinary life do n't fit into Frammartino 's picture-postcard pieties ; his sincere but diffuse spirituality is the cinematic equivalent of New Age music . Just watch , and wonder . An intriguing , somewhat maddening intellectual puzzle film and then a hypnotic illustration of an ambiguous , unsettling thesis . Grave , beautiful , austerely comic , and casually metempsychotic , Michelangelo Frammartino 's Le Quattro Volte is one of the wiggiest nature documentaries -- or almost-documentaries -- ever made . The director emphasizes the fragile and invisible , the small specks of matter that make up the whole . 	Birth , death , and transformation are examined in Le Quattro Volte , a profound and often funny mediation on the cycles of life on earth .
vantage point If you are looking for mindless action , it 's not bad . But since this is trying to be something more than that , I ca n't quite recommend it . It swears it 's being clever yet refuses to trust the audience . This pseudo-political action thriller is rather half baked editorially but otherwise overcooked . Watchably silly at best , it 's the political thriller as an unintentional comedy of errors - 24 meets Noises Off . A decent thriller that takes time to get started As Vantage Point becomes increasingly busy with personal betrayals and redemptions , the ostensible politics , reductive to begin with , fall by the wayside . The whodunit-with-terrorist-undertones does n't test , shock or surprise the audience in any unique way . A monument to cinematic suckiness . Vantage Point is a tense and imaginative thriller that reels you in the longer it goes along , only to lose focus in the last 15 minutes . This final reel misstep is a shame , but it 's not enough to ruin all the good work that 's come before it . Decent actors wasted ; impossible , idiotic plot twists ; an unimaginative shooting style ; an okay but unspectacular bit of action . Yep , it 's a February movie all right . 	Vantage Point has an interesting premise that is completely undermined by fractured storytelling and wooden performances .
rare exports A bloody , but oddly entertaining , holiday ho-ho-horror story . If you see only one fiendishly bizarre Finnish film about an evil Santa Claus and his naked band of marauding elves this holiday season , make it `` Rare Exports : A Christmas Tale . '' This small , dark gem out-Scrooges Scrooged and makes Bad Santa look like a feel-good film . It 's hard not to like a movie in which a little kid who 's so skittish that he totes around a protective stuffed animal suddenly stares down the grown-ups , cocks a gun , and snarls , `` It 's either me or Santa . I suggest Santa . '' Like Bad Santa and Silent Night , Bloody Night , it 's a Christmas movie that is n't for children . Quite whom it is for , I 'm not totally sure . For a while , it 's a genuinely funny and unnerving experience , promising a lively payoff , but the ending is anti-climactic and the meaning of the title is only revealed in the laborious , jokey ending . While Rare Exports is certainly spooky , the plot is too thin to engage while its gratuitous use of the F-word and full frontal male nudity make it a children 's film unsuitable for children . One of the best ( and most brutal ) festive kid 's films in years . A brilliantly twisted idea , horribly executed Imaginative and twisted in equal measure , but ultimately only scratches the surface of a stupendous idea . 	Rare Exports is an unexpectedly delightful crossbreed of deadpan comedy and Christmas horror .
2 fast 2 furious It 's 2 silly 2 take seriously but 2 fun 2 be bad . A fun enough ambiguously gay carsploitation flick even though it 's instantly forgettable . Worth seeing only if you 've seen all the better movies now in release . It 's ridiculous and knows it . It 's the Dukes of Hazzard for the rave/glowstick generation . The pic is closer to the PlayStation experience of Gran Turismo than to a movie . This is not to say that it is n't fun , only to say that it is more about sensation than sense . Like Smokey and the Bandit for a younger , more fly , urban generation . I 'd have gone with 2 Loud 2 Obnoxious , or 2 Ridiculous 2 Unnecessary . A kind of Miami Vice with many more carz and numberz where all the adjectives used 2 go . Energetic if empty sequel . For all its technical prowess , pretty-boy looks and fetishistic appeal , 2 Fast is often laid low by a leaden script and a couple of glaring casting blunders . 	Beautiful people and beautiful cars in a movie that wo n't tax the brain cells .
the ground truth A turning-point documentary which presents the truth about the war in Iraq in the profound and troubling words of veterans who fought there . This film is effective because it does n't rely on statistics , but rather interviews with soldiers , interspersed with combat footage . It 's an essential piece of the narrative , and there 's little doubt that the voices of these objectors will only grow louder over the coming months and years . This documentary is enraging . So much lip service is paid to supporting the troops ; so little support is actually given . ... loses a grand opportunity : to preach to the unconverted . It 's an edifying , upsetting film that offers a different perspective on the situation in the Middle East . Among the many virtues of Patricia Foulkrod 's immensely moving documentary about veterans of the Iraq war is the measure it takes of how far we have come since Vietnam in sympathy for American soldiers who serve abroad . `` The success of The Ground Truth lies in the courageously open and honest interviewees , but it works because of Rob Hall 's editing , which not only compiles for us a perfectly evidential collection of footage but does so at a pace that does n't dilly-dally What sets The Ground Truth apart from standard network news coverage and even previous documentary efforts is the scope of footage Foulkrod has access to . The documentary any American with an opinion on our involvement in Iraq owes it to his or her conscience to see . 	The stories the soldiers have to tell are eye-opening and wrenching to hear ; collectively it 's a searing peek into the toll of war both during and after .
staying alive It is a movie caught in a time warp : a slick MTV video that celebrates Eisenhower-era morality . For the Staying Alive audience , the problem is staying awake . It all amounts to an embarrassing show of unrestrained , Hollywood-style egomania . The bottom line is that Staying Alive is nowhere as good as its 1977 predecessor , Saturday Night Fever . 1.5 The words 'directed by Sylvester Stallone ' say it all . So horrific are the musical sequences in this movie that you 'll swear you were having nightmares directed by Satan himself . As always Travolta is urban gorgeous and very charming . The rest of the film is neither . Tracking Travolta 's adventures as he gets to perform on Broadway and falls in and out of love , director Stallone is in his mindless mode when it comes to characterization . Not quite a career low for John Travolta -- Two of a Kind was still to come -- but one he nevertheless would probably love to forget . All could be forgiven if it were n't for the soulless overall slickness . 	This sequel to Saturday Night Fever is shockingly embarrassing and unnecessary , trading the original 's dramatic depth for a series of uninspired dance sequences .
the end of the tour 2015 The End of the Tour is a sequel to Almost Famous because it is about another Rolling Stone writer getting embedded with a celebrity . Perhaps the third in that trilogy can have Rolling Stone hire me to live with Vin Diesel for a year . The End of the Tour is one of the best movies I 've seen this year . Of course , some film-goers will disagree . Loudly . A heartfelt portrait of self-questioning genius and a thinking man 's version of bromance . It asks provocative questions about the nature of conversation while engaging in equally provocative conversations . Wallace probably would have hated it . The End of the Tour may be a niche movie but for those willing to tunnel in , it 's a thing of beauty . Like an energetic terrier and a cautious great dane sussing each other up , Eisenberg and Segel are an unlikely yet perfect pairing in director James Ponsoldt 's dual character study , one which plays like the road trip version of `` My Dinner with Andre . '' The most remarkable novelist of our age is the subject of the most remarkable picture of the season - possibly the year . Ultimately , `` End of the Tour '' feels like a sensitive portrait of a good man struggling to deal with depression and fame , as well as a tender depiction of what a towering talent and decent person that awful disease snuffed out . The real star is the script . Eisenberg 's casting teeters on too perfect . He may currently be the best young actor working within the narrowest range-though , to his credit , he finds new ways to enact restiveness and competitive brilliance with each role he takes on . it 's a fascinating and poignant film about friendship and envy , and the ways we can tie ourselves into knots trying to meet our own expectations or the ones we imagine others have of us . Better to just take Wallace 's advice : `` Be a good guy . '' 	Brilliantly performed and smartly unconventional , The End of the Tour pays fitting tribute to a singular talent while offering profoundly poignant observations on the human condition .
swordfish A film that reeks of stupidity and cynicism , one that makes you feel soiled just to have sat through it . Cool explosions are the best thing here . Relentlessly mediocre , and belligerently determined to hide its mediocrity under sleek production values and cocky attitude . Date Movie ? Bring one who can help you talk back to the screen . Yes , producer Joel Silver is back in fine form with a glorious orgy of destruction . Techno tosh , but fitfully great fun all the same . The action sequences are great and the pacing is so taut that once you 're strapped in it 's difficult not to go along for the ride . While embracing and celebrating its lowest-common- denominator aspirations make the film refreshingly unpretentious and modestly diverting , it does n't make it a good one . A disappointing film suffering from a lack of self-control . Fish food . 	Swordfish is big on explosions , but critics dislike how it skimps on plot and logic . Also , the sight of a person typing at a computer just is n't that interesting .
dr no Would be perfect if not for that damned annoying `` Mango Tree '' song . All of the elements of the formula are there , but in pleasing moderation . An entertaining piece of tongue-in-cheek action hokum . Of course , it 's nonsense -- pure , escapist bunk , with Bond , an elegant fellow , played by Sean Connery , doing everything ( and everybody ) that an idle day-dreamer might like to do . While it may appear tame by the standards of the later productions , it 's an entertaining look back in movie history at a project that developed into a worldwide phenomenon . The first Bond is still one of the best Bonds , though modern audiences wo n't be wowed by the gadgetry that has become accelerated over the years . Still ranks in the upper echelon of the Bond series . In an age where this genre of show often degenerates into a special effects extravaganza , it is refreshing to see one , like Dr. No , where brains can be characters ' salvation . The James Bond series started in great style with this cleverly conceived dose of sheer escapism that , unlike later episodes , remained true to the essence of Ian Fleming 's super-spy novels . Scan Connery is such a disappointingly wooden and boorish Bond that the script 's touches of grim humour go for less than they need . 	Featuring plenty of the humor , action , and escapist thrills the series would become known for , Dr. No kicks off the Bond franchise in style .
dreamgirls Dreamgirls is the entire musical package , a triumph of old school on-screen glamour , and we would n't want it any other way . It 's loud , with lots of pretty colors , but there 's nothing holding back the melodrama or making it emotionally relevant . A clich-riddled storyline populated by unsympathetic characters and songs that repetitively bleed into one another to the point where we curse Motown for the R & B movement altogether . Jennifer Hudson makes her acting debut in Bill Condon 's Dreamgirls , and it 's safe to say the phrase `` star-making turn '' was invented for performances like hers . The movie 's barely good , but the music ? The voices ? The soul ? ! Lord , have mercy . When Dreamgirls is behind the mic , it 's Oscar golden . But when it 's powered by anything other than its pipes , say story-telling , it falls flat and hard . Eddie Murphy is worth the price of admission alone . He is n't so much a masculine stage presence as a walking erection with a quiff . It compares to that other `` legitimate '' musical smash of recent vintage , Chicago . It just does n't have the life or fun of Chicago . ... while it may not hit the heights like `` Chicago , '' it 's the first musical since then with a shot at scoring with audiences . This glitzy , infectious and unusually heartfelt musical does n't always hang together as a satisfying narrative -- too many characters compete for too little screen time -- but its pleasures are numerous enough to override its flaws . 	Dreamgirls ' simple characters and plot hardly detract from the movie 's real feats : the electrifying performances and the dazzling musical numbers .
for the bible tells me so While the movie seems tilted toward Christian families attempting to work through issues of having a gay son or daughter , `` For the Bible Tells Me So '' fills a yet another heretofore blank chapter on Gay rights . An important and edifying documentary that can convince many to open their hearts and their minds to support gay and lesbian equality . Wallner 's journey to acceptance , not the movie 's slight forays into theology , will be what you remember about For the Bible Tells Me So . It 's a powerful , positive film . For the Bible Tells Me So probes the conflict between an obdurate force and a movable object , hoping against hope and the laws of physics that one can sway the other . The film offers proof that religion and homosexuality need not be mutually exclusive : Good Christians can love and accept their gay brothers and sisters , and gay people can still be religious . Progressive clergy provide enough historical context to neutralize the handful of Bible verses prohibiting homosexual acts , but Karslake never confronts the broader issues of sexuality and procreation that bedevil even moderate Christians . While the film is unlikely to sway anyone whose mind already is n't made up , it provides plenty food for thought in its examination of biblical doctrine on same-sex love and how it resonates to this day . Will likely find itself preaching to the converted , but its moving true stories are powerful enough to affect anyone open to listening . This rational , human and very serious documentary by Daniel Karslake gets at the historical distortions of the Good Book as well as the ease with which holy writings have been used in America to propagate hate . For the Bible Tells Me So is never less than lively and stimulating in its arguments , even detouring into a very amusing cartoon dealing with the evidence that sexual orientation is biologically determined . 	A timely and poignant examination of gays , their families and religion .
mrs doubtfire spectacular I 've rarely laughed so much at a movie I generally disliked . Williams has to break out of a second-rate `` Tootsie '' imitation , ankles clamped in pathos and face covered in latex . He pulls it off in the end , but it 's not pretty . I laughed so hard several times that I had trouble stopping . Rousing comic portrait of a dad who loves his kinds more than anything else in the world . Raw , uncoated stupidity that sticks in your throat . Sit-com stuff , then , with laboured farcical interludes , and a mushy post-feminist sensibility . Funny notwithstanding . Clumsy , but you ca n't go wrong with Robin Williams in drag . The audience will likely enjoy the good stuff so much that they will easily overlook the film 's weaknesses . An overactive , cheeky costume comedy highlighted by the inspired zaniness of Robin Williams 	On paper , Mrs. Doubtfire might seem excessively broad or sentimental , but Robin Williams shines so brightly in the title role that the end result is difficult to resist .
the grey zone Like the Ancient Mariner , Nelson grabs us by the collar and says , You must know about this . You must bear witness . And so you do . [ Nelson 's ] movie about morally compromised figures leaves viewers feeling compromised , unable to find their way out of the fog and the ashes . The Grey Zone is powerful , mesmerizing and disturbing . It unsuccessfully tries to bridge the gap between pathos and establishing a sense of realism , coming across as forced . Overweight prisoners and Harvey Keitel 's German accent distract from the mood of the film . Nelson 's work is relentless , grueling and courageous . Easier to respect than to love . As bold and unyielding as The Grey Zone stands with its historical subtext , there are a few factors detracting from the powerful message . Even in its darkest moments , a heartening defiance underlies gut-wrenching calamity . So many incredibly raw , wrenching -- and , crucially , unsparingly unsentimental -- scenes and moments that it 's impossible to not be haunted by the film . Brings light to a little-known facet of the Holocaust in a way that does justice to its moral ambiguities . 	A grim and devastating tale of the Holocaust .
mission to mars Mission to Mars is neither commercial nor intriguingly indulgent . There does n't seem to be an original moment in the entire movie . A very long voyage to nowhere -- a dull , overly sentimental and derivative film that accomplishes little other than remind us that science fiction can be a whole lot better than this . Silly , turgid and devoid of even the hints of original thinking , Mission to Mars is a testament to shameless creative theft . Bears the distinct imprint of helmer De Palma , still one of the best visualists to work in the action/adventure genre . An instant popcorn classic . Is n't exactly a dull experience , but it is a monotonous one , because the capabilities it so obviously holds is put to zero good use . Though unapologetically old-fashioned and corny , Mission still has its share of nail-biter moments . De Palma 's picture brings neither the wit nor the emotional derring-do of the subsequent movies to its account of not one but two tragedy-plagued flights to Mars . The film is a montage of showy effects , blatant product placement and ideas lifted wholesale from much better films . 	Beauty only goes skin deep in this shallow but visually stunning film .
faithless 2001 Lugubriously paced . A probing look at love , marriage , fidelity , rivalry , and other deep-rooted emotional issues . Beautiful and honest and , sadly , every second of it feels achingly real . Bien realizada , bien dirigida y mucho mejor actuada There 's a real emotional heft to it , and the performances are superb . Ullman is n't able to harness the intensity this confessional tale needs . Endre is superb in the role Ullmann would have played 20 years ago . Bergman 's words , even via translated subtitles , are powerful and uncompromising and seem to sidestep many of the clichs found in your standard tale of infidelity . An unqualified triumph . If Ullmann has unquestionably appropriated from her years with Bergman ( and Josephson ) a magnificent empathy with her players , she is also rewardingly attentive to visual detail . 	This brooding , measured look at adultery is ultimately emotionally riveting , thanks to its script and performances .
miss potter Do n't be surprised if you shed a little tear in Miss Potter . This enchanting biopic about the world of the creator of Peter Rabbit is warm and funny , revealing and moving . Zellweger and McGregor work well together , and have believable chemistry . In fact , the entire ensemble cast is terrific . A thoroughly pleasant experience . Mostly , though , Miss Potter turns the solemn comedy of her books and illustrations into mere whimsy , animating Jemima Puddle-duck into cartoon life whenever Beatrix talks to her . Miss Potter , right to the end , is the definition of a nice movie , and that makes it a genuine oddball in a universe of increasingly distressed and uncivilized pop culture . Tepid biopic of children 's book author Beatrix Potter . There is something refreshingly outward-looking and un-divalike about Potter , or maybe it just seems that way after recent biopics about artists Virginia Woolf and Diane Arbus . As with any good story , there are ups and downs and some rather dramatic emotional shifts in Miss Potter that do n't always hew to one 's wants or expectations . But it 's ever a gentle and rewarding ride , safely guided throughout . Its old-fashioned sincerity ultimately proves disarming . Sweet but not cloying , it 's a heartening portrait of goodness surmounting the odds . I found it slight but enchanting , which is not the same thing as slightly enchanting . 	A charming biopic that maintains its sweetness even in sadder moments .
wristcutters a love story Wristcutters is a cut above most low-budget American indies , with something original to say about the human condition and an artful way of saying it . Giving some thought to the desperation that leads to suicide would have prevented this vaguely conceived idea from being so DOA . It focuses on its own unique voice , and trusts that those who want to hear it will follow . It 's borderline parody of a kind of fey filmmaking popular at crunchy-granola festivals , but the counterfeit aesthetic is ultimately outshone by the life-affirming message . Definitely worth a look . This is one of the more creative , unusually entertaining things I 've seen in a while . A well-wrought indie written and directed by Goran Dukic . It 's described as a black comedy , but you can forget the comedy part . Strands a fantastic premise and interesting characters on its increasingly annoying road trip to nowhere in particular . ... more whimsical and charming than you would ever expect from a picture about suicide . 	Wristcutters : A Love Story sounds like a normal enough indie flick . Boy meets girl . Boy gets separated from girl . Boy goes on a road trip with friends to find girl and gains a new perspective on life . Except everybody 's dead .
notting hill With Notting Hill , you 've got a romantic comedy that makes falling in love with a movie easy as pie ! [ Notting Hill ] has buckets to spare of that rarest screen commodity -- genuine , engaging charm -- plus a cast and production values that fully deliver when the chips are down . This flick is ten times the movie that Phantom Menace is ! Nothing new . And nothing much . It 's a crowd-pleaser , all right ( so were public hangings , once ) , but with all the emotional resonance of a tap on the knee with a rubber hammer . Sometimes it 's the simple , unfussy entertainment that comes off best . Notting Hill is Four Weddings And A Funeral with inferior character actors , no Simon Callow , and fewer jokes . The film is surprisingly charming summer entertainment . Roberts is beautiful , Grant is charming , London is picturesque . What more can you ask for ? Grant and Roberts build an exciting fire between them ! 	Charming performances provide romance aplenty .
harry potter and the half blood prince I think the film really sets up the next two installments of the franchise nicely . Betrayal , heartbreak , disillusionment : Our young wizard has entered the adult world . An uninformed audience is left with a movie that feels like 90210 meets Mr. Wizard . I 'd rather watch David Copperfield make the Statue of Liberty disappear for 153 minutes than endure this flick 's trite magic tricks . As for the ever-impressive supporting cast , neither a delightfully befuddled Jim Broadbent nor a wild-eyed Helena Bonham Carter can upstage Alan Rickman , who again proves invaluable as the slithery Prof. Snape . Now that all the actors playing children in this series of movies have grown up and become adults , finally we get to the first movie in the series that allows them to act like children , however briefly . The present film is a stepping stone , neither classic Potter nor scintillating adventure , but it proves the depth and wholeness of Rowling 's imagined world . [ Half-Blood Prince ] might be the most enjoyable Harry Potter movie yet for people who do n't particularly care about Harry Potter movies . By far one of the best of the series , and absolutely the funniest and most human . Half-Blood Prince 's length is its only real problem , and judicious editing could have easily trimmed a half hour or more out of the film , giving it tighter , more urgent pacing Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince is an intoxicating potion of teenage hormones and evil spirits . Both are raging . 	Dark , thrilling , and occasionally quite funny , Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince is also visually stunning and emotionally satisfying .
goon It 's a surprisingly watchable , big-hearted yet unsentimental film ... A blisteringly askew tale of how you do n't have to be good at a sport to succeed , just know your role . Goon skates just far enough away from the normal `` guy overcomes adversity to achieve his dreams '' story to make it an entertaining watch . Goon is a Canadian hockey comedy with a capital CANUCK . It oozes Great White North out of its every pore , which I 'm glad to say is a lot less disgusting than it sounds . Pumping in the Puccini , the director lifts the movie off the ground , giving the feature an identity that 's worth paying attention to . The movie is harsh , nasty and vulgar like you would n't believe . And often , it 's hilarious . A disarmingly sweet descendant of the blood-on-the-ice classic Slap Shot . George Roy Hill 's classic Slap Shot may still hold the title as the quintessential hockey comedy , but Goon certainly deserves to be mentioned in its company , juggling charm and grit and raunch and bloody teeth with assuredness and aplomb . It 's every bit as sharp and funny as Slap Shot . Depicting the vocationally debauched world of second-tier hockey , Goon is not only rowdy , but also humane ... 	Goon is a crude slapstick comedy with well-formed characters and a surprising amount of heart .
resident evil This video-game-to-celluloid adaptation has a clammy , nightmarish glaze and tightly coiled sense of tension . Resident Evil is a rabid zombie thriller that splatters on the screen with gruesome joy . Intense , loud and fast-paced , this is the best video game-turned-movie ever . So lifeless , pointless and dank that it manages the amazing feat of making the undead seem boring . One thing 's for sure-if George Romero had directed this movie , it would n't have taken the protagonists a full hour to determine that in order to kill a zombie you must shoot it in the head . A derivative collection of horror and sci-fi cliches . Fans of the game and the genre will be disappointed with the lack of gore ... and everyone else will find what plot there is confusing and boring . Game fans will be disappointed . Zombie fans will be disappointed . Paul Anderson 's fan will be disappointed . When the dead come back to life and start chewing on the living it all comes flooding back . These heroes should have remembered `` Dawn of the Dead '' The special effects for this film were pretty bad . Is this the future of horror or just some bizarre fluke ? Do n't ask me , I 'm having too much fun to care . 	Like other video game adapations , Resident Evil is loud , violent , formulaic , and cheesy .
live free or die hard Live Free or Die Hard is as close as we are going to get to reliving the good old action films of the '80s . For 80 minutes or so , Live Free or Die Hard ... shapes up as a spiffy popcorn movie with at least as much emphasis on brains as on muscle . Live Free or Die Hard is surprisingly satisfying , largely because it is such an unapologetic throwback to pre-CGI mayhem . Willis ' star power and willingness to mix it up , along with thrilling action sequences , keep Live Free from collapsing into B-movie silliness . The kind of funny , exciting , entertaining action film that 'Pirates of the Caribbean : At World 's End ' was supposed to be . Hugely enjoyable action flick that delivers likeable characters , a decent plot , plenty of wisecracks and more breathtakingly ridiculous stunts than you 'll know what to do with . Welcome to the new millennium John McClane , where the portions are huge but the quality is n't what it used to be . I can safely say I 've never seen anything as ridiculous as Live Free or Die Hard . As a summer popcorn flick , Live Free or Die Hard delivers the goods . This year 's honorary It Could Have Been Worse Award goes to Bruce Willis , who proves nearly as durable as his signature hero , John McClane . 	Live Free or Die Hard may be preposterous , but it 's an efficient , action-packed summer popcorn flick with thrilling stunts and a commanding performance by Bruce Willis . Fans of the previous Die Hard films will not be disappointed .
aristocats This 1970 animated feature is dull , careless , and all too typical of the Disney studio 's slapdash output before the unexpected renaissance of The Rescuers . ... not a bad film ... just a middle-of-the-road one from a studio that has given us some true animated classics . ... do n't expect [ The Aristocats ] to be even close to such Disney masterpieces as The Lion King or Beauty and the Beast . An enjoyable mix of fine animation , catchy songs , and outstanding voice characterizations . Jazz and hijinks make this Disney cat tale meow . has a charm behind it that shines through The Aristocats is one of the slightest of director Wolfgang Reitherman 's contributions to the Disney animated feature canon , which is to say it 's still among the studio 's least suffocatingly ornate and ideologically risible films . always a classic , if tepid Helped immeasurably by the voices of Phil Harris , Eva Gabor , Sterling Holloway , Scatman Crothers and others , plus some outstanding animation , songs , sentiment , some excellent dialog and even a touch of psychedelia . The animals ' exuberance is so infectious and their `` acting '' so true to human life that by the fadeout The Aristocats does , indeed , give the audience paws for reflection . 	Though The Aristocats is a mostly middling effort for Disney , it is redeemed by terrific work from its voice cast and some jazzy tunes .
london-boulevard As a pastiche of so many previous gangster movies , it 's lazily enjoyable . But it does n't repay any thought . Equally indebted to Martin Scorsese , Guy Ritchie , and Giorgio Armani , London Boulevard represents the apotheosis of style over substance . It 's a film with plenty of front , as they say , but uses up all its energy , wit and ideas in the first 20 or so minutes , before collapsing into a flurry of boring violence . Knightley does an adequate job and fans of Farrell , while they might admire his performance , will probably be disappointed with the overall film . A stylish if familiar tale of a man hopelessly entangled in his past . Has the kind of edge that too few movies allow themselves ... handled with skill and a blend of wit and suspense . Hard-boiled crime yarn with Irish wit , colorful characters and considerable style . As gangster thrillers go , this one is a ripper . William Monahan , Oscar-winning screenwriter for The Departed ( 2006 ) has adapted Ken Bruen 's book in great style and directs his top cast adroitly Brutal and with a plot that 's all over the place , it seems we 're taking early delivery of a Christmas turkey . By far too stylized , the film loses itself in this would-be `` dynamic visual '' style over content and coherence . 	In spite of its spotless pedigree and a strong sense of visual style , London Boulevard stumbles over its frenetic pace and crowded , clichd plot .
aeon flux The 15-year-old MTV cartoon on which it is based must be better than this . Breeds plenty of contempt . The camera drools over each titilating catfight and gazelle-like leap . A story that is both poorly conceived and badly told . It probably looked like a good idea on paper . A failure even on the action-adventure/vicarious-butt-kicking level . It 's as if someone just swept up the floor at the Sci-Fi Factory , and instead of tossing the junk into the garbage , they glued it together and called it a movie . The telling of this story is rather dull and lifeless ; the film is full of rote combat sequences and no real sense of danger or adventure . This could have been , maybe , a rich and fascinating invented place to explore and hang out in , but instead it feels like exactly what it is : a bulls**t Hollywood excuse for science fiction . While its heart is in the right place , Aeon Flux 's head is just a little too high to make much sense . 	Aeon Flux lacks the gravity-defying pace of its animated predecessor , and , despite some flash , is largely a dull affair .
walk to remember For anyone under 13 , free from cynicism and with a need to believe that 17 year-old boys are n't just after one thing , maybe this film rocks . A monstrosity of a movie that I am all too eager to forget . A sermonizing and lifeless paean to teenage dullards . This realist fairy tale of impossible love has a fair amount of nuance and charm . 'No one was expecting Remains of the Day but this film could have been more than just a Dawson 's Creek stop gap . ' Adopts a breezy anti-cynicism as a pose , and then spends the rest of the time failing in the most spectacular way to competently execute it . It 's an overwrought teen weepy , Terms of Endearment for the TRL crowd . This horrific teen romance-cum-weepie is best watched from between your fingers , or from under your seat , or perhaps standing outside the cinema looking in the opposite direction . This is a great romantic tearjerker . A shameless , compassionate tearjerker about hope , inspiration and courage . 	Though wholesome , the Mandy Moore vehicle A Walk to Remember is also bland and oppressively syrupy .
end of the century the story of the ramones This absorbing documentary by Michael Gramaglia and Jim Fields traces the history of the seminal punk rock band in exhaustive detail . Everything you want to know about the Ramones , as told by many of the people who were there to remember . A film that does a fine job explaining their importance without airbrushing their foibles . A portrait of an unpretentious band whose sum was greater than its very flawed parts . An absorbing , thoroughly entertaining look at the music and feuding of the influential American punk-rock band . 1 ) it 's a richly human story about friendship , originality , professionalism and success , and 2 ) there 's hardly been any new music worth a lick in the past 30 years that the Ramones did n't somehow inspire . A haunting study of the Ramones -- if your eardrums can take it . Engaging documentary . The revelations may even deepen your appreciation for the music -- it 's incredible that so much dumb fun was generated out of such pain . It 's hard not to feel that the Ramones , who never had a hit record , were the greatest band in 50 years to be stonewalled out of success . 	Gabba gabba hey ! With its focus on the groundbreaking work of the 1970s punk band The Ramones End of the Century makes a solid entry into the growing canon of documentaries that capture Punkology .
beatles the yellow submarine A unique and often brilliant animated film that pictures the Beatles as towering and often god-like gentlemen who have the power to change worlds ... What a trip . Inventive animated feature . Yeah , yeah , yeah . This psychedelic trip into the minds of the Beatles is certainly memorable , but you have to wonder what this movie would be like without the awesome collection of Beatles tunes punctuating the soundtrack . Visually inventive . Sure , some of the puns and in-jokes sound a little dated , but any movie that strings together lines from Shakespeare merely as a throwaway comic riff is , in my book , a film for the ages . An outrageously inventive piece of eye-popping pop , it still qualifies as one of the greatest animated movies ever made . ( It also landed in the number 11 spot on Creative Loafing 's own list of The 20 Greatest Rock Films Ever Made . ) Not a splendid time for all . Truly one of the finest animated films and one of the finest cinematic musicals of all time . Whether it was a case of inspiration or coincidence , most of Yellow Submarine 's more creative and graceful visuals are those that complement the songs . 	A joyful , phantasmagoric blend of colorful animation and the music of the Beatles , Yellow Submarine is delightful ( and occasionally melancholy ) family fare .
the hunger games As tough-spirited as fans would hope for - and exciting and thought-provoking in a way few adventure dramas ever are . Jennifer Lawrence 's shining talent makes it all come together . Just as brave and loyal Katniss Everdeen is the heart of the wildly popular series of `` Hunger Games '' novels , Jennifer Lawrence is the heart of this faithful adaptation . More than just a Battle Royale with cheese . . . The Hunger Games stomps the Twilight saga flat , and though I found those films somewhat amusing , this one is the real deal ... If , as the ads suggest , the whole world will be watching this , viewers will likely be satisfied with what they see . The Hunger Games is more notable for the holes it does n't fall into than the great heights it reaches . Lawrence , a rock on which to build a franchise , sells all of this beautifully . Her empathy roots the sci-fi extravaganza in an emotional reality that becomes crucial as the games unfold . Displaying a sturdy professionalism throughout that stops just short of artistry , director Gary Ross , who co-scripted with Collins and Billy Ray , does his strongest work in the early scenes , which set up the stakes with chilling efficiency . The basic problems stem from the lackluster direction and the witless , bare-bones screenplay . This is sort of a BookRags.com take on a classic . You get the characters and the plot basics , but the art is missing . 	Thrilling and superbly acted , The Hunger Games captures the dramatic violence , raw emotion , and ambitious scope of its source novel .
sid and nancy ... the movie takes us on a rocky , sometimes funny , sometimes annoying , often heartbreaking ride . Why then should anyone of sane disposition wish to see the film ? Because it is still a love story , and a very touching one at that . Despite the downward spiral of these two lives , the film never loses its drive or passion ; it never wallows in the misery . [ Cox ] and his actors pull off the neat trick of creating a movie full of noise and fury , and telling a meticulous story right in the middle of it . Sid and Nancy is the definitive pic on the punk phenomenon . The performances of Oldman and Webb , both stage-trained veterans , are simply astonishing . Cox 's film is strong on the atmosphere of the day and the sordid lives of those involved . The only thing that is sustained in Sid and Nancy is a tone of clinical disinterest that leaves you asking why Cox would want to make a movie about them . A haunting love story about a mutually self-destructive and harrowing pair . A few too many moralistic foreshadowings , but most of the time Cox 's situations and characters develop on their own eloquently entropic terms . 	Visceral , energetic , and often very sad , Sid & Nancy is also a surprisingly touching love story , and Gary Oldman is outstanding as the late punk rock icon Sid Vicious .
days of glory 2007 Can be heavy-handed at times but overall makes its points with considerable power . ... a good , action-packed war movie with admirable character development , one that informs while it entertains . A clear and urgent essay on the battle for soldier 's hearts and minds in the context of foreign wars . A great action war film featuring suburb acting throughout . Days Of Glory is an extraordinary document , part war film , part love story , part history lesson . It 's to the credit of the actors , and Algerian-born director Rachid Bouchareb , that we become emotionally involved with the soldiers and the injustices they are forced to endure . It is n't often a movie has the power to force a country to do the right thing . A long-view history lesson and emotionally solvent treatment of the North African role in WWII that redresses the still-lingering issue in France . [ Days of Glory 's ] grim , cynical portrayal of young men considered worthy enough to die for a foreign country , yet unworthy of being treated as equals , proves bluntly powerful . Days of Glory is a rousing , old-fashioned World War II platoon movie in the gritty tradition of combat pictures like Don Siegel 's Hell is for Heroes , Sam Fuller 's The Big Red One and Steven Spielberg 's Saving Private Ryan . Earnest yet heavy-handed . 	Days of Glory is a powerful historical epic that pays homage to a valiant group of soldiers whose sacrifices have largely been forgotten .
charlotte sometimes a rarity in American films A smartly made , hedonistic spectacle of alluring , nubile characters , sun-warmed narcissism and breathtaking color . May take its sweet time to get wherever it 's going , but if you have the patience for it , you wo n't feel like it 's wasted yours . Charlotte Sometimes is a gem . It 's always enthralling . More interesting than arresting , perhaps , `` Charlotte Sometimes '' is an intelligent piece of filmmaking that promises more than it delivers . May not be gripping in conventional ways , but it 's daring . It 's all arty and jazzy and people sit and stare and turn away from one another instead of talking and it 's all about the silences and if you 're into that , have at it . Though the themes are n't exactly groundbreaking , they 're executed skillfully enough to make the movie well worth seeing - for fans of the genre , at any rate . As an antidote to talky American indies involving twentysomething romantic conundrums , Charlotte Sometimes hits just the right note . A tiny film that reflects a large talent . 	Featuring an attractive young cast , Charlotte mostly shines as a portrait of the sexual frolics and hangups of L.A. Asian twentysomethings .
highlander endgame Perhaps Highlander : Endgame may emerge as a cult movie -- one of those movies that is so bad , it 's good . But for it to register in that way , you probably have to see it more than once . Which is a risk . It 's fast , short , restlessly plotted and , at times , pure bananas . When Highlander sticks to the hand-to-hand battles and does n't try to offer deeper thoughts on the life of an immortal , it works on its own terms . There 's little that anyone who does n't catalog `` Highlander '' kills online could possibly comprehend about this mythology-heavy permutation while mocking its Casio-demo score , junior-high-play scene blocking , Skinemax sex and oafish action sequences . It 's a cut above Highlander II and III , though that 's sort of like saying rotting cheese tastes better than raw sewage . Even the sound effects get tiring : How many times can you hear swords being clanged , yanked from the Earth or sinking squishily into quivering flesh without getting bored ? People going to see this movie without any knowledge of the Highlander TV series or the original film will be lost . Fans , on the other hand , will love it ! We 're left to endure this banquet of bad acting and worse dialogue with no relief save for your inner-heckler . They crammed a lot of bad , bad stuff into such a short flick . Its story is so incompetently constructed that the long lulls between nonsensical action scenes make you wonder if it was written by a prepubescent fan . 	The fourth and supposedly last Highlander movie is a confusing mess , complete with bad acting and dialogue .
i am divine Hard to beat for sheer enjoyment , as when Divine 's mother remembers : 'I used to always say , Glenn , do n't do anything to embarrass us ' -- a sound bite accompanied by footage of Divine being raped by a giant lobster in 'Multiple Maniacs . ' It 's surprisingly moving stuff - dressed up with just enough archival outrage to remind you how scandalous Divine once seemed . It 's hard to go wrong with a movie about famed drag queen Divine , and director Jeffrey Schwarz certainly does n't in `` I Am Divine , '' a serious documentary about this gloriously trashy trailblazer . It 's a warm , affecting tribute , taking us inside the blessed existence of the person John Waters calls the world 's greatest outsider . This documentary mostly looks back on its subject 's career as a notorious drag act , with consistently amusing input from the likes of John Waters , Tab Hunter and psychedelic theatre troupe The Cockettes . Schwarz offsets the camp with a sincere appreciation of both the obvious , larger-than-life personality and this performer 's oft-overlooked skills ... Schwarz interviews friends and fans , piecing together a picture of a gentle , perhaps surprisingly shy man who channelled his family 's rejection and his anger at society into his outrageous alter-ego . Even if this overly respectful movie never goes quite deep enough , it does shows us the man behind the garish eye shadow , the lost boy under the Totie Fields wig . Despite the sadness , we are reminded of what an influential figure Divine was , and how his very presence continues to bring comfort to others who identify as outsiders . ( A ) s a celebration of one of the most unique talents in the history of all mediums , this movie does ( Divine ) more than justice . 	With warmth and affection , I Am Divine offers an engaging portrait of the complex personality behind a trailblazing cinematic figure .
honey Do n't mistake this for A Chorus Line 2 : Electric Boogaloo . Honey is fixated on center-stage cameos at the expense of its too-brief dance sequences , and the idol worship undermines the film 's anti-bling moralizing . The story is a bit clich , but it bristles with energy and positivism . Standard-issue live-your- dream urban dance drama . By no means is this a good movie , but it 's warmed by the solar energy of its star , who surely deserves better than this formula empowerment flick . The muddily photographed production , with its rote script and chop-chop editing , makes for a barely passable new-school musical . The movie is so energetic , sincere and funny that I did n't mind the bad parts . It 's so predictable . Snaps , crackles and pops along to a dynamic beat Sparkling but slight glimpse into the lives of the lusty female dancers of the music video world . Overproduced and underwhelming . 	An attractive Jessica Alba and energetic dance numbers provide some lift to this corny and formulaic movie .
arthur 2011 The original `` Arthur '' was harmless . The new one is charmless . Brand has a playful charm that wins us over , while co-star Gerwig is the girl next door who never lived next door to you ( no matter how much you wish she did ) . Russell Brand steps into Dudley Moore 's old shoes and finds an uncomfortable fit . Although meant as mere entertainment , Arthur has some points to make about the cleansing power of love and its opposite , the destructive power of its absence . Abysmal ... a serious miscalculation . Arthur is well-executed tomfoolery slapped on top of sentimental predictability . Blobby and a bit of a mess but offers a fair number of laughs ... Fluffy though it might be , `` Arthur '' is a heartwarming comedy . That 's certainly more than you can say for the typical Hollywood romcom . Peter Baynham 's script has some good throwaway lines , and Mirren 's approximation of Gielgud is a nice touch ... Wretchedly unfunny stuff , and apologies should be issued post haste to any surviving member of the original 's cast and crew and the families of those no longer with us . 	An irritating , unnecessary remake that demonstrates the libertine charm Russell Brand exudes in supporting roles turn against him when he 's star of the show .
snakes on a plane Usually you can laugh with a bad movie it or laugh at it . But Snakes on a Plane is laughing at you . It not only fulfills the low expectations of its title , it Tasers them into submission . Snakes was born dumb , but was then rendered ordinary . Snakes on a Plane may not be a good movie by conventional standards , but with the proper amount of love via audience participation , this genre picture is exactly the sort of silly fun that mega-priced , B-grade tentpole films often fail to be . Does the film deliver ? Undeniably yes . Snakes On A Plane may , in fact , be in the top three most supremely entertaining films I have ever seen . Snakes on a Plane is pure escapist fun and absolutely nothing more . From first frame to last , Snakes on a Plane is an unabashedly and unpretentiously the cheesy and campy B horror movie we expected ( and wanted ) it to be , delivering the thrills , frills , hisses , and other pleasures , including Jackson 's notorious F-line . You half expect them to wheel George Kennedy out for a cameo . The one thing that could kill the phenomenon that is 'Snakes on a Plane ' has arrived : 'Snakes on a Plane . ' It 's all mano e snako , and lots of silly fun . At least Snakes on a Plane does n't try to be anything but what it is . There 's a certain knee-jerk impulse to bash Snakes , just because of all the ridiculous buildup , but the film delivers on its promise of reptilian fun , with a camp mix of comedy , horror and suspense . 	Snakes on a Plane lives up to its title , featuring snakes on a plane . It is n't perfect , but then again , it does n't need to be .
along came polly ... far more entertaining than its derivative nature would suggest . A lot of energy is expended -- and wasted -- in this implausible comedy about opposites attracted to each other . Recycles gags from various , more successful gross-out and romantic comedies , but without any zest or imagination . Un producto clido cuyo mayor atractivo es el bagaje carismtico de sus protagonistas . Though Polly packs ample comic punch , it also demonstrates that life is n't about the safe past or the uncertain future but the journeys we make each day . Maybe Ben Stiller should take a break There is something cruelly funny about getting dumped on your honeymoon , but that was done far better in Elaine May 's The Heartbreak Kid . Like its protagonist , too cautious for its own good . A lighthearted , lead-footed romantic comedy of the post-Farrelly sentimental yuckfest school . It looks like Universal Studios had their script doctors work on this one , but clearly nobody could come up with the right prescription . 	Though the supporting actors are funny , Stiller and Aniston do n't make a believable couple , and the gross-out humor is gratuitous .
in a world 2013 Lake Bell is a wildly exciting and much needed new voice . There 's a difference between paying your dues and self-abasement , but you would n't know it from this overstuffed and joyless film . A character-driven comedy that gets most of its oomph from an unusual inside-Hollywood setting It 's clear that Bell has found her voice , and with any luck , she 'll be sounding off for years to come . Very funny semi-satirical look at the bitchy , male-dominated world of movie trailer voice over people . A clever , likable comedy that sends up sexism , satirizes Hollywood , examines family ties and features a surprisingly tender romance at its core It will gently settle into the undistinguished ranks of history 's perfectly okay works of art . I wo n't sing it 's praises , but I do n't regret watching it either . Although In a World ... won Bell a screenwriting award at the Sundance Film Festival , what 's more compelling is how well this low-key comedy exhibits her charms as an actress . `` In A World ... '' is too good a film to merely focus on ... one plot element , or to present its male characters as one-note villains . These are complex people , funny one moment and infuriating the next . We 've already met Lake Bell , versatile actress ... It 's time to meet Lake Bell , feature film writer , director ( and producer ) . And what a debut it is : Her film has heart , soul and a message without getting too preachy . 	A funny , well-written screwball satire for film buffs , In a World ... proves an auspicious beginning for writer , director , and star Lake Bell .
divine intervention 2003 Presents , in its collagelike way , a sad socio-psychological study of a people whose hatred for a mutual enemy is turning in against themselves and eroding whatever is left of civil behavior a little bit more each day . Some scenes are just meant to be amusing , while others are calculated specifically to give some psychic satisfaction to Palestinian viewers . It 's ridiculous and smart , hilarious and terrifying , difficult to swallow and probably a necessary antidote to the cacophonous history of a land that all too often seems anything but holy . Simmering , sharply observed work . Laughing at the cruelty of man , of one neighbor 's inhumanity to the other , Suleiman uses comedy to dig under the skin . The film 's subtitle is , after all , A Chronicle of Love and Pain . While its deadpan comedy recalls Jim Jarmusch , and its deep humanity might remind you of Abbas Kiarostami , Divine Intervention is calmly unsettling in a way that feels entirely new . A film whose eerie blend of deadpan wit and inner angst upset all your expectations . Equally absurd and despairingly angry , the result is simply Divine . Elusive but fascinating . A divinely absurdist comedy . 	Suleiman utilizes absurdist humor to craft a provocative , original film .
i am big bird the caroll spinney story Very much a heartwarming tribute , bordering on treacly . An incessantly schmaltzy TV score threatens to drown us in syrup , but the sight of Big Bird singing It 's Not Easy Being Green at Jim Henson 's memorial provides a powerful emotional sucker-punch . The transcendence that the film offers is n't to be taken lightly considering the near impossibility of living professionally as an artist . There 's no ducking the frank admiration and love on display in `` I Am Big Bird : The Carroll Spinney Story . '' Then again , there 's a lot to love and admire here . It 's freaking Big Bird . Spinney is a one-of-a-kind personality , an oddball even among the oddballs who pioneered Sesame Street 's Children 's Television Workshop . Behind-the-scenes footage provides some fascinating glimpses of Sesame Street being blocked . It coalesces into a highly entertaining , surprise-packed and enjoyably nostalgic experience . It gives you the impression of knowing him well , and it does it , amazingly , while barely showing his face . There 's little sour to temper the sweetness of this portrait . An endearing life story . Wonderfully nostalgic but also heart-wrenching at times for anyone who grew up with the support of PBS 's Children 's Television Workshop . 	Every bit as good-natured as longtime fans might hope , I Am Big Bird : The Carroll Spinney Story offers heartwarming behind-the-scenes perspective on a cultural icon .
let me in Beautifully shot , sensitively directed , and elegantly scripted , it is a horror movie with the kind of substance and depth that 99 % of genre fare lacks . It lingers in your mind and your heart . Let Me In mimics the mood and mastery of Alfredson ? s original almost to the point where it 's a shot for shot remake . Yes , it ? s good . But only because the original was good to begin with . In color , composition , and tone , both Let Me In and Let the Right One In are strikingly alike , but their differences are almost as remarkable . Reeves , for the most part , delivers a film that 's every bit as compelling as Alfredson 's original . Horror film , serial killer drama , revenge fantasy , or coming-of-age romance , Let Me In succeeds whichever way you want to look at it . It 's an impressive , thoughtful version with Reeves ' reverence for his source material winning through and the performances of his two young leads well up to snuff . Every bit as moody , as melancholy and as meaningful as its Swedish inspiration , as it explores heartbreaking themes of alienation and the universal need for human contact . a masterpiece of subtle horror told in hushed tones and lurking tension Vale la pena verla , por supuesto , pero mi mejor recomendacin sera ver ( antes o despus ) la versin sueca . Puede ser incluso un interesante ejercicio de comparacin ... It 's a movie driven by commerce , but it does find some moments of inspiration . 	Similar to the original in all the right ways -- but with enough changes to stand on its own -- Let Me In is the rare Hollywood remake that does n't add insult to inspiration .
punisher war zone Punisher : War Zone is not a movie that I can tell people to go see in good conscience , but there is an audience out there who likes watching excessive violence , and I must admit there were times when I was entertained . About as entertaining as being slapped by a stranger . A one-man invasion . Good he 's on our side . The franchise simply ca n't compete with better written and directed comic book offerings out there . This includes Howard The Duck ... Whether you enjoy Punisher : War Zone or not will depend completely on what you 're looking to get out of it . A 'Castle ' complete with a torture chamber . Another violently unsuccessful attempt to bring this comic book character to screen . The guiltiest of guilty pleasures . Gore-drenched actioner is guaranteed to draw fans of wretched excess like moths to a nuclear holocaust . Violent vigilante comic book story is gory , grim stuff . 	Punisher : War Zone recalls the excessively violent , dialogue-challenged actioners of the 1980s , and coincidentally feels two decades out of date .
son of the bride Nice performances all around and a lighter-than-expected dusting of sugary sweetness keeps it just this side of insufferable . Poignant without being treacly or cloyingly phony . A knowing sense of humor and a lot of warmth ignite Son of the Bride . Campanella gets the tone just right -- funny in the middle of sad in the middle of hopeful . One of the best films of the year . What starts off as a possible Argentine American Beauty reeks like a room stacked with pungent flowers . Son of the Bride may be a good half-hour too long but comes replete with a flattering sense of mystery and quietness . Wills itself into good graces through the sheer power of the performances . It goes on for too long and bogs down in a surfeit of characters and unnecessary subplots . A pleasant and sometimes heartwarming two hours ' diversion . 	A film about one man 's mid-life crisis , The Son of the Bride is both touching and funny .
the big kahuna It makes exactly the point that is the opposite of the point it thought it was making : Acting is n't enough . If you 're prepared to accept an inherent staginess that gradually fades as the film progresses , you can become caught up in a drama of extraordinary power and insight . Kahuna has great acting and sizzling dialogue . Yet as much as we may resist , The Big Kahuna closes the sale . The only problem with the film , is that it 's more of a play than a cinematic experience . The Big Kahuna sells itself beautifully . John Swanbeck has made a notable debut with The Big Kahuna . Most films would quickly become stuffy with this limiting approach , but it is a tribute to the sharpness of the acting and the dialog that The Big Kahuna rarely does . The performances are first-rate , particularly that of DeVito as The Big Kahuna 's version of Willy Loman . Support this kind of filmmaking . 	Wonderful adaptation of the stage play .
last samurai 'Claro ejemplo de lo que Hollywood es capaz de hacer cuando se lo propone : un cine de alto nivel , entretenido y emocionante . De lo mejor del ao ' Bogs down in a long , pretentious middle section that sometimes feels more like an endurance contest than a movie . como se , envergonhado pela falta de integridade artstica de John Logan , o prprio filme houvesse decidido praticar o haraquiri a 50 minutos do final da projeo . An often thrilling piece of oriental- meets- occidental hokum . Taken on the level of spectacle rather than of sense , The Last Samurai affords the sort of fizzy enjoyment that can come with epic movie endeavors . Great to look at and respectful of its subject matter , this is an epic with excitement , brains and heart . You 're 'Shogun ' like it ! Entertaining at times . The purity of Cruise 's anguish and Watanabe 's nobility carries the drama . Tom Cruise stars at his forceful , charismatic best , while director Edward Zwick contributes the sort of sensitivity and power he brought to Glory . 	With high production values and thrilling battle scenes , The Last Samurai is a satisfying epic .
wall street money never sleeps There is nostalgia value in revisiting the character but , unfortunately , the picture plays like a faint echo of the original , inferior in every way . Greed just ai n't good anymore . Oliver Stone wages a valiant attempt to stay true to his original `` Wall Street 's '' streamlined storytelling about the warped mentality at the center of the capitalist world . Money Never Sleeps is n't an epic masterpiece like Stone 's World Trade Center , but it 's often amazingly vivid . If you 're not looking for anything particularly profound , it 's entertaining , thanks to the zest of the cast and the stylish look of the film . full review at Movies for the Masses The time is right for the return of Gordon Gekko , but making him a sidekick in a convoluted revenge plot , loaded with GFC history and allusions , stifles his totemic comeback . Less might well have been more , Mr Stone . This being Oliver Stone 's long-gestating , self-important sequel to Wall Street , Jake will be learning some harsh life lessons . This may work against `` Wall Street : Money Never Sleeps . '' The film , Oliver Stone 's revisit to his innovative , Academy Award-winning 1987 film `` Wall Street , '' is classy and entertaining to be sure . But its time has passed . `` A topic as sexy as money should never , ever be boring . '' People should care as much about Gordon Gekko 's family life as they should about Hannibal Lecter 's favorite vacation spots . 	It 's more entertaining than many sequels , but with Oliver Stone directing , a terrific cast , and a timely storyline that picks up where the original left off , Wall Street : Money Never Sleeps should be better .
chicken little If this is rated G , I 'd better bring an extra pair of underpants to Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire . Interesting to watch , I guess , but the folks at Pixar need n't watch their backs just yet ... this ai n't even close to the coolness they churn out on a regular basis . Given Disney 's marketing muscle , most kids will probably se Chicken Little whether they want to or not . Alas , no amount of pop-culture in-jokes and cutesy characters can conceal the fact there is n't enough story to sustain a film even of this limited duration . Only a singularly subversive sidekick , a Streisand-obsessed porker ( Zahn ) , makes this movie stand out from a host of other mediocre animated kids ' flicks . It has a fresh visual style and keeps the bodily function jokes to a minimum ( like Pixar ) , but they also stuffed the movie to the gills with pop song after pop song . There 's scarcely enough story here for a half-hour TV cartoon . The Disney studio was once the gold standard for feature animation . Now it gives us ... the worst cartoon movie of the year . It lacks a good , old-fashioned story -- the fourth dimension every 3-D feature needs to be a classic . A splashy , spunky tale , geared to amuse its pint-sized audience . 	In its first non-Pixar CGI venture , Disney expends more effort in the technical presentation than in crafting an original storyline .
magnolia The film 's strength lies in the economy of its narration : each of its scenes pulls the viewer directly into the heart of all conflict , a choice which tries to compensate for the overwhelming diversity of all its stories . Speaks to us from places we know all too well - the dark side of the morning , and the solitary depths of the human heart . Although its too early to tell , P. T. Anderson could ultimately end up leading a filmmaking revolution in Hollywood . Three hours , ten minutes is a long time to keep an audience involved in 10 characters ... The real star here is Anderson , who glues together long , sweeping takes with quick edits and unique camera angles to create a visual masterpiece . Contains moments of considerable beauty , terror , and insight . One of the many characters in Paul Thomas Anderson 's amazing new film , Magnolia , Jim spends a lot of time talking to himself - and you too , since you 're along for the ride - while driving his car , on the way to or from a call . Anderson has efficiently sabotaged and humiliated himself . Anderson 's three-hour film will try the patience of anyone dead-set on a single unifying story , but fans of ambitious cinema that fudges with narrative traditions are in for a treat . Cruise , with a sharklike stance , gives a career-best performance as a total bastard . 	Critics say Magnolia is an ambitious , lengthy work that ultimately succeeds due to the interesting stories and excellent ensemble performances .
exorcism of emily rose Director of photography Tom Stern had served as cinematographer on the Oscar-sweeping Million Dollar Baby , but the overall look of Exorcism is one of a bland TV movie . It does feel a bit like a TV movie of the week , but the strong performances elevate it to another level . The filmmakers are n't championing ignorance ... Those on insisting on seeing this as taking sides in the 'debate ' over evolution are missing the point . Intriguing as far as it goes , Emily either needed to be more psychologically and intellectually probing or flat-out horrific . A devil 's bargain was cut between the two , and it left the movie in a kind of limbo . Emily Rose succeeds not so much with re-branding , but through good old-fashioned star power . Why do priests always need to know the demon 's name ? You want to exorcise it , not register it for dinnerware at Crate & Barrel ! It 's a pity that all this exposition is written with such clunkiness that it would make George Lucas yelp . I guess it 's appropriate that the new movie about demonic possession should suffer from a split personality Carpenter shrieks and snarls , Wilkinson frets piously , and Linney knits her brows , but all in such a reverent way that the necessary emotional fireworks never ignite An uneasy hybrid of horror , courtroom drama and true-life story . 	Loosely based on a true story , The Exorcism of Emily Rose mixes compelling courtroom drama with generally gore-free scares in a ho-hum take on demonic cinema .
moonstruck Cher and Nicolas Cage have a ball in this ethnic comedy of manners , and there are moments of pure magic when moonlight does its romantic work . John Patrick Shanley 's witty , shapely script puts an octet of New Yorkers under a lunar-tuney spell one romantic night . Cher shines brightest of all . A warm and funny little ensemble piece that still holds up pretty darn well after almost 20 years . Reviews of the movie tend to make it sound like a madcap ethnic comedy , and that it is . But there is something more here , a certain bittersweet yearning that comes across as ineffably romantic , and a certain magical quality . `` brilliant writing , magnificent performances '' ... generally unable to live up to its reputation as a classic romantic comedy . A wholesome , filling glimpse at what happens when people rediscover their appetite for love . They 're an irresistibly offbeat couple -- Cage playing on the edge , where he likes it ; Cher creating a fairy-tale realist , captivating yet cautious . The title refers to one relative 's theory that the full moon can make people wildly romantic , make them behave in wonderful , unpredictably crazy ways . Not crazy enough . Stronger on mores than amore , a half smile for a summer night . 	Led by energetic performances from Nicolas Cage and Cher , Moonstruck is an exuberantly funny tribute to love and one of the decade 's most appealing comedies .
war inc A brave and ambitious but chaotic attempt at political satire . A great political satire - a Dr. Strangelove for the YouTube generation The John Cusack 'comedy ' ( generic term used loosely ) gives anti-war filmmaking a bad name . The filmic equivalent of a bleating , hot microphone - all crossed wires and misfunneled energy . A punk-rock Strangelove riff on a mission very much unaccomplished . Like the smart weapon technology it mocks , War , Inc. aims at the right targets but misfires so severely that even the clever details get obliterated in the resulting mess . While its plot aligns War , Inc. with other , higher-profile action-thrillers , its political critique is more explicit and its ad campaign more oblique . Even less funny than Southland Tales and not nearly as adventurous . Each earnest impulse blunts the edge of an already scattered satire and obscures the logic beneath it . And the laughs are buried in the same pile of disorderly conduct . First-time director Joshua Seftel over-stirs this burlesque brew and flattens out the fizz . 	War , Inc. attempts to satirize the military industrial complex , but more often than not it misses its target .
10012141-kids are all right Family-centric comedy has never felt so fresh . The actresses are loose and funny , trading off big scenes and clearly enjoying themselves throughout . ... All the pieces are in place -- I just wish Cholodenko had been a little more precious about the execution . This is n't a movie about gay marriage ; it 's a movie about marriage , period , and the way complacency and resentment can undermine a relationship . The acting is close to flawless . Regardless of the orientations , 'The Kids Are All Right ' is an all-American film . It 's a great piece of filmmaking because of its characters , all of whom feel genuine and three-dimensional in ways that typical screenwriting fails to pull off . The Kids Are All Right is warmly recommended to anyone in search of smart , grown-up entertainment . During the Summer of 3D glasses , `` The Kids are All Right '' proves that what you really need to create an immersive , real-life film experience is a sharp pencil and some interesting friends . A warm , funny , entertaining , slyly subversive little movie built around five very solid performances . 	Worthwhile as both a well-acted ensemble piece and as a smart , warm statement on family values , The Kids Are All Right is remarkable .
threeextremes Things that are unique are interesting , and that can only be a plus to the stuck-up , artsy-fartsy horror film critic like myself . A trio of horror pics , one , Dumpling , being the best , the other two just fine . All three look great and the filmmakers deliver a certain artiness , but their overall triviality and the unpleasantness of the first two make for an extremely distasteful experience . What 's significant about this is that three of Asia 's most creative forces have come together in a single project . This is n't for the weak of heart or stomach . This is disturbing stuff , people . Three of Asia 's best-regarded young filmmakers contribute to this terror trilogy , each giving his segment a distinctive flavor of bleak black comedy and elegant dread . You ca n't watch these three mini-movies without wondering what you possibly can take from them , but there 's warped creativity at work in all of them , and if you can separate talent from content , you 'll see three very adventurous filmmakers at work . 'Cut , ' Park 's contribution to Three ... Extremes Full Review | Original Score : 2/4 A satisfying trio of twisted tales . These films give you a rush that most American horror movies do n't , even if you 're not entirely certain what 's going on . 	This anthology contains brutal , powerful horror stories by three of Asia 's top directors .
kissing jessica stein There are some really wonderful moments that build beautifully , chronicling the pitfalls in bringing old baggage , traditional family and romantic love under the same roof . Esta baboseira com pretenses intelectuais possui um roteiro ( escrito pelas duas protagonistas ) cheio de absurdos e um vocabulrio rebuscado que denuncia sua prpria arrogncia . What neither the trailers nor the newspaper features written about Kissing Jessica Stein will have prepared you for is quite how funny it is . Smart and sassy , here is one helluva terrific word-of-mouth feature . Watch it , then tell all your friends to see it . A very funny , lively , upbeat film about sexual confusion among the relationship-challenged . The manner in which the story resolves may irk the politically correct crowd , but it seems pointedly plausible to those living in the real world . This is not an outstanding film , but certainly parts of it work very well . The only time the writers deviated from the formula is when they replaced Troubled , Handsome Beau with Troubled , Pretty Lesbian . Westfeldt and Juergensen give energetic , bubbly performances , and their script is a winner . Revives a genre that 's been listing badly , infusing it with wit and intelligence and a welcome shot of indie energy . 	A trite but refreshing and comical spin on nature of love .
1108704-planet of the apes As we 've come to expect from Burton , Planet of the Apes is a movie of unusual beauty and spooky visual qualities . Ten years from now , it will be the 1968 version that people are still renting . Neither superior nor inferior to the original , but it does serve as a nice companion piece . Tim Burton 's `` reinvention '' of '68 sci-fi classic boasts awesome makeup and design -- and awful writing . The fruits of Burton 's imagination are almost always worth seeing on the big screen , but do n't go expecting anything intelligent . Dreary and overwrought . It does n't even seem like Burton showed up to direct this turkey . it 's hard to justify the remake , er , `` revisit , '' beyond the improvements in make-up special effects and computer-generated imagery Easily the most extensively racist Hollywood movie produced in recent memory . Yes , the apes are very , very cool . The costumes , the sets , the makeup , the stunts , the music and the special effects : cool , cool , cool . 	This remake of Planet of the Apes ca n't compare to the original in some critics ' mind , but the striking visuals and B-movie charms may win you over .
1212891-furry vengeance Not a film where viewers will learn an awful lot , this is aimed fair and square at entertaining children and perhaps their parents ' inner children . In this aim , it succeeds . Is there really such a paucity of live-action family films on offer that Furry Vengeance needs a release at all ? Fraser merece crditos pelo esforo e por no temer o ridculo . Por outro lado , isto no desculpa para a atrocidade representada por este filme racista , mal dirigido e sem a menor graa . Perhaps the gods ( and monsters ) are pissed at Brendan Fraser , and they 're wreaking career vengeance with this slapsticky disaster about woodland creatures defending their turf . But what did we ever do to deserve this ? The whole movie feels extrapolated from the five-second clip of a scheming chipmunk on YouTube , bulked out with shots of Fraser being thwacked with some generic crunch noise and falling backwards with his feet in the air . Sometimes , movies of this nature are quite funny -- Gore Verbinski 's Mouse Hunt comes to mind -- but usually they are not . This one is n't . One of those sad little movies upstaged by its own vastly superior trailer . That even the kids in the audience did n't really laugh at all the hyperactive mugging and slapsticky animal nonsense pretty much tells you what an excruciating 91-minute endurance test this is . Forever positioning himself as Hollywood 's jester , Fraser pads up for another odyssey of slapstick and genital trauma in Furry Vengeance , an odious , chintzy , and soul-flattening promenade into sadistic wackiness . Imagine Alfred Hitchcock 's The Birds as a children 's comedy , and you have a rough idea of the excruciatingly unfunny Furry Vengeance , which keeps slamming the audience over the head with a single joke . 	A thin premise stretched far beyond serviceable length , Furry Vengeance subjects Brendan Fraser -- and the audience -- to 92 minutes of abuse .
in a better world The film is built on strong performances and some powerful moments , though its subtleties risk being eclipsed by contrived emotional pyrotechnics . Bier , when she allows herself , loves the peripheral as much as the portentous . She understands that an image can tell more than words , more than even 1,000 . There 's little flash or surprise in Bier 's latest well-shot film , but plenty of substance . Though the performances are excellent , it aint no Dogtooth . The movie holds your attention , but you leave discussing the manipulative plot rather than the moral issues it raises . A thought-provoking , powerfully acted and resonant exploration of rough justice in the modern world ... Essentially an essay about bullying ( ... ) and the abuse of power , it will probably be appreciated most by people who want to keep up with [ Susanne ] Bier 's maturing catalogue . A most deserving Oscar winner and a film that could provoke discussion anywhere it is shown , anywhere people of any age are being bullied Bier 's strength is storytelling and her ability to find actors to do those stories justice . Director Bier and her regular screenwriter Anders Thomas Jensen construct a believable series of events where notions of Western civilisation as opposed to Third World moral disarray are put to the test . 	In a Better World is a sumptuous melodrama that tackles some rather difficult existential and human themes .
college road trip College Road Trip is the kind of movie that its audiences will use once for blowing off steam and then toss aside as if it were shrink-wrap . Imagine being locked in a car with Charles Manson , Idi Amin and Osama bin Laden . The worst road trip ever ? Nope . That honour belongs to Martin Lawrence 's latest so-called comedy , which parks itself neatly between the words appalling and god-awful . When all else fails , and the last faint possibility of comedy has vanished , the director turns on the sentiment . It is genuinely , consistently , indisputably putrid . Even with a brief running time , 'College Road Trip ' is an ordeal that even its target audience will find dispiritingly lame . This is a family movie that parents can actually take young children to see and not cringe while they 're watching . Do n't tase me bro ! College Road Trip may be mawkish and predictable , but some well-staged gags and several memorable contributions by supporting players keep the sap from getting too sticky . Somehow it took four writers to crank out what passes for a script ... I do n't know if there are more than three or four laughs here , not even for devoted pre-teen fans of Raven 's cable show . 	Filled with shrill gags and middling slapstick , College Road Trip is woefully short on comic imagination .
machinist Reduces tragedy to a mere punch line , and as such its lead character exists less for himself and more for the gratification of the Memento fan club . This bleak exercise in paranoia is somewhat thin on 'entertainment value , ' but it 's heavy enough on mood to warrant spending a few hours inside Reznik 's skin . Until now Bale 's screen persona has been defined by a graceful athleticism ; here his physicality is repellent , yet he carries the occasionally creaky plot of Scott Kosar 's unsettling screenplay to a resonant finish . Bale is superb as Trevor , able to not only convey the wasted person within , but to avoid making his physical appearance the only thing we care about or notice . The Machinist does n't take us to a happy place . For those who appreciate true mind-bending grit , though , this is the bedeviled place to be If the intent of Anderson , Bale and Kosar is to create empathy for their tortured character and synesthesia with his madness , then they succeed many times over . [ A ] powerful evocation of guilt , anxiety , and incipient insanity ... If Nine Inch Nails , Swans and Ministry ever loomed large in the landscape of your imagination , Anderson 's gloomy aesthetic may exert a sour but lingering pull . Christian Bale delivers one of the most astounding performances of the year in this exceptionally written psychological thriller . ** Low-budget , high-shiver horror film is anchored by Christian Bale 's unsettling portrait of insomnia . 	Brad Anderson 's dark psychological thriller about a sleepless factory worker is elevated by Christian Bale astonishingly committed performance .
1107863-moulin rouge Nicole Kidman is absolutely stunning in this film . . . MacGregor is equally charismatic and heartbreaking . . . has the rare ability to stir every emotion in the human soul One of the most exciting pieces of filmmaking to hit theaters in a long time . Like being stuck inside a kaleidoscope for two hours while a madman plays a calliope next to your ear . If it lacks the emotional punch of Luhrmann 's earlier films , and drags towards the end , it is still great fun . So large and lush and full of itself that it 's hard not to surrender to the film 's bombastic charms . A jaw-dropping tour de force of visual imagination . Reconfigures bigscreen musicals with more daring , inventiveness and conviction than any movie since The Umbrellas of Cherbourg . A sumptuous , spectacular , laugh-inducing , tear-jerking oasis of unbridled spirit and emotion . Disappointing because it could have been so much more . Sensual ravishment , indeed . 	A love-it-or-hate-it experience , Moulin Rouge is all style , all giddy , over-the-top spectacle . But it 's also daring in its vision and wildly original .
dawn of the planet of the apes It 's a thoroughly mediocre movie [ and ] I 'm sorry to say that , considering that its predecessor in this new cycle , Rise of the Planet of the Apes , was so unexpectedly good . Any film that begins with one of those fake-news montages , where snippets of genuine CNN footage are stitched together to concoct a feeling of semi-urgency around its hackneyed apocalypse , already sucks even before it gets started . However often it risks monkey-mad silliness , it 's impressively un-stupid . A very easy movie to admire and almost impossible to enjoy . I spent most of the running time appreciating the artistry while wishing I could be anywhere else . Dawn never feels dull or draggy . It also never feels as excitingly intelligent as its Apes ancestors . I was n't a huge fan of the original reboot but Dawn Of The Planet Of The Apes reeled me in quickly and held me right through to the action finale . For all its high-end special effects and its Shakespearean ambitions , Dawn fumbles its emotional moments and forces its action . Within the fertile area between promise and execution , Dawn is dynamite entertainment , especially in the rousing first hour . Clarke is strong , and Keri Russell , Kodi Smit-McPhee ( another Aussie ) and Gary Oldman similarly work hard , but this is all about the apes . Dawn of the Planet of the Apes has its problems , but its triumphs are many , from its exciting pacing and strong sense of place to its charismatic turn by Andy Serkis , whose characterization at times reminded me of Abraham Lincoln . 	With intelligence and emotional resonance to match its stunning special effects , Dawn of the Planet of the Apes expands on its predecessor with an exciting and ambitious burst of sci-fi achievement .
knowing It 's intriguing B-feature apocalypse , determinism versus free-will stuff . The final message may be trite , even saccharine , but Knowing would be pretty well unbearable without it . Proyas has made a truly haunting and terrifying film . Ultimately the one who gets burned is Cage , a 1996 Oscar winner whose once-promising career is boarding the mother ship for oblivion . Knowing 's premise is intriguing , even if it ends up being a familiar race-against-time-disaster-movie . An earnest Cage lends some gravitas to a film of amazing coincidences and less than amazing special effects that sci-fi fans will embrace until something better comes along . The movie 's big , dumb elements come in all the wrong places ; they provide lots of anxiety but little relief . It 's the movie Keanu Reeves ' Day the Earth Stood Still remake wished it could have been . As well as being perversely pessimistic for a blockbuster , it 's rendered tedious by a dense plot and lifeless characters . Even M Night Shyamalan would have done a better job . How dare such an empty film ask us to endure many realistic scenes of carnage ? If those space-dudes are so friendly , why drive children insane with a bunch of weird code ? Why not just show up on The Tonight Show and tell everybody the exact date and time ? Lame ! Also : Why fake Massachusetts ? Why not just say : 'This is Australia . ' Excessive finale aside , its novel concept makes for a mental and action package worth seeing . 	Knowing has some interesting ideas and a couple good scenes , but it 's weighted down by its absurd plot and over-seriousness .
le petit lieutenant One would expect with American television 's worldwide hegemony , something like Mundane real life can make for some pretty dull viewing , and the only thing that enlivens Beauvois ' anti-thriller is Baye 's beautiful performance , a career high that culminates in a tip of the hat to her first great director , Francois Truffaut . Le Petit Lieutenant is an interesting crime thriller that has few conventional thrills but does give a fascinating look into the mechanics of a Parisian homicide squad . A quiet powerhouse of a film , an implacable , uncompromising French police drama , both old-fashioned and modern , that underlines the reasons impeccably made crime stories do so well on screen . French version of upscale cop shows like NYPD Blue or The Wire . Just as the French may overrate our cinema ( Jerry Lewis , anyone ? ) , we may overrate theirs . Take Le Petit Lieutenant -- please . director Xavier Beauvois uses the investigation of one crime ... to string together a character piece that is as much about the character of a Parisian homicide squad within a police department as it is a study of some of the individuals who comprise it . Basically a vivid meal of characters , plus coffee and wine and one gin tonic , Le Petit Lieutenant keeps true to its brasserie menu . I wo n't give away the plot twist , except to say that the final minute of the movie is one of the most bleak , and moving , endings I 've seen in years . A hugely satisfying policier that delivers exceptional performances . 	A gritty , languidly paced crime drama that blends old-fashioned ambiance with modern cynicism .
star wars episode iii revenge of the sith 3d The finale feels less the inevitable conclusion of some great saga than the predictable mooing of a reliable cash cow . Like the most heavily-effects-budgeted shoulder shrug in history . What makes this movie work is watching Anakin Skywalker break our hearts , and ultimately serve as a textbook example of how the road to hell is paved with good intentions . A good film , but just not the classic it could have been . Revenge of the Sith overcomes its dime-store dialogue and less than convincing performances through the sheer force of its director 's vision . ... falls down in the one area that it ca n't afford to - making us feel something at the moment Anakin goes to the Dark Side . ( G ) ood is seduced by evil and good must ulimately triumph is balance is to be restored and peace secured . Sound familiar ? We are all preprogrammed in one way or another to want Episode III -- Revenge of the Sith to climax in the way it does . All George had to do was not screw that up . He did n't . Sure to please diehard fans and fringe folk alike . Though it starts slowly , it lumbers toward greatness in the last third and restores him briefly to the top of his class . 	This sixth and final installment of George Lucas ' epic space opera will please die-hard fanatics and non-believers alike -- largely due to awesome digital effects and the sheer power of the mythology .
my big fat greek wedding It 's enjoyable , with a cracking performance from Michael Constantine as Toula 's father Gus . It 's as warm as a double shot of Ouzo , as exotic as chicken-lemon soup and as sweet as a plate of honey-dripped baklava . Out loud laughing , full of heart and humor and just wonderful feeling . Dare I say , a triumph ! It would be enjoyed by anyone who has been married , is married , wants to get married , or knows someone who is married . A circus full of wacky and interesting characters . On the whole , this film did n't make me laugh much , did n't make me 'aaaaaah ' much and did n't give me any more insight into its astronomical popularity . Balances the specifics of the Greek-American culture with the transcendent universalities of family dynamics and makes you want to hug your own family . It looks more like a film designed for the small screen . But , like Toula , is has a good-natured personality . It 's a buoyant comedy with more warmth and generosity of spirit than anything else in theaters right now . With its thin premise and stereotypical characters , a better title would have been A Big Fat Waste of Time . 	Though it sometimes feels like a television sitcom , My Big Fat Greek Wedding is good-hearted , lovable , and delightfully eccentric , with a sharp script and lead performance from Nia Vardalos .
mr peabody and sherman At the very least , Mr. Peabody & Sherman is a reminder that Hollywood 's obsession with reboots/revivals/re-imaginings can be done right . Mr. Peabody & Sherman front-loads the duo 's adventures with one-dimensional , lowest-common-denominator conflicts as the canine genius and his preteen companion zigzag through antiquity with a comedian 's , rather than a historian 's , eye for detail . I ca n't think of the last time I 've had as much fun with a kinetic , confident time-travel comedy . Probably the original Bill & Ted . There are jokes for both young and old , it really is educational , and if you do n't smile every time Mr Peabody 's little tail starts wagging , then ... well , there 's no hope for you as a human being . Kids seemed to love the action and fast pace while the historical references and humour add plenty for older kids and adults . Too dull and mediocre to be interesting or interestingly bad . It 's actually based on characters from Sixties TV series The Rocky and Bullwinkle Show , yet there 's nothing dusty about the first 60 minutes of the script ( the ending drags but hey , you ca n't have everything ) . Burrell and Max Charles set the tone with spot on vocal work , Burrell 's dry , studious delivery mixed with the joy of teaching and pleasurably groan-inducing puns . Offers a fairly consistent stream of sight gags and vocal slapstick , even as the plot veers wildly down a wormhole in the time-space continuum . Full of clever , sweet and invention , Mr Peabody & Sherman is proof of the old adage ( in reverse ) that every dog should have a boy 	Mr. Peabody & Sherman offers a surprisingly entertaining burst of colorful all-ages fun , despite its dated source material and rather convoluted plot .
1085113-siege A gripping build up gives way to an incredibly dumb finish . Exciting and thought-provoking . A flawed melodrama that gives itself a self-important weight it can not sustain throughout . There 's a lot of high drama , and Zwick pushes the Big Moments a little too hard -- but solid performances and plenty of shattering explosions conspire to keep you on the edge of your seat . The first hour is riveting , with a couple of particularly tense scenes . But things go hideously awry from there as the ham-fisted messages begin to dominate . The Siege may well be based on a huge 'what if ? ' premise , but it 's smart , taut and knows exactly what the hell it 's doing . And it does it well . While the ending was pure Hollywood , and there was too much cute spy stuff , most of the film was suspenseful , engaging and thought-provoking . There are so many genuine shocks , surprises and moments of gut-wrenching tension in this thriller of a film , its few flaws deserved to be overlooked . This movie has a very strong and compelling narrative thread running through it , and it benefits from expert direction that elevates the tension to a pitched height . Any movie about terrorist bombings that contains relatively few explosions , as The Siege does , deserves a special award for its lack of pyrotechnic overkill . 	An exciting , well-paced action film .
charlies angels The T & A in this film is truly amazing , as if Russ Meyer served as creative consultant . I lost count of how many times an Angel shakes out her hair in slow-mo like a Keeshond wicking rainwater from its pelt . Vapid and self-consciously kitschy , these gals are a 13-year-old boy 's fantasy of a strong woman . This is Hollywood aiming T & A at little girls , but I would n't let any little girl I cared about see this film . Charlie 's Angels may be the year 's most pleasant surprise . So inconsequential that it starts evaporating from memory the minute it 's over . There was n't a moment during Charlie 's Angels when I regretted seeing the movie . Afterwards , I felt like I had wasted two hours , but during , never . Though all this is fun and engaging in short bursts ... it wears thin and strains our patience when stretched to cover even this film 's brief 92-minute length . Al cine de accin le haca falta un buen representante del gnero femenino y en esta ocasin se presentan tres bellos ngeles que cautivarn al espectador de cualquier edad The most expensive cheesecake movie ever made . Charlie 's Angels is a further reminder , as if more was needed , that in an age of lowered expectations , we get the entertainment that we tolerate . Enjoy this well done cheesy movie about a cheesy TV show . 	Mixing tongue-in-cheek cheesecake with glossy action set pieces , Charlie 's Angels is slick and resonably fun despite its lack of originality .
nothing but the truth It 's Kate Beckinsale who is fantastic and she is able to hold the strong premise long enough to keep my interest in a politically-charged thriller . Most importantly , the film takes the issue beyond just journalistic integrity and the government 's intrusion . It looks at real life . Thoughtful and incendiary , stressing the ever-increasing threats to civil liberties in the name of national security . It is a rock-solid entertainment , made by adults , starring adults , and intended for adults If you think you know the premise or believe that this is just a fictional retelling of the Judith Miller scandal from a few years back , I beg you to leave those preconceptions at the door . I know I went in with my own . Nothing But the Truth is none of The sexing up/dumbing down fails to compensate for the gobs of punishingly dull blah-blah about crusading reporters . Kate Beckinsale and Vera Farmiga 's terrific work is easily the best reason to watch . The two lead actresses play superbly rounded characters , both smart , tough customers unused to being pushed around , yet wives and mothers whose domestic concerns are as important to them as professional ones . Though a final , sly revelation stacks the deck a bit , Truth makes a smart , measured case out of a real-life drama that wound up far less heroically . I thought the performances were great , particularly Vera Farmiga . 	A well-crafted political thriller , Nothing But the Truth features a strong cast that helps the real-life drama make an effortless transition to the big screen .
yoo hoo mrs goldberg In Aviva Kempner 's affectionate documentary Yoo-Hoo , Mrs. Goldberg , Berg , who once polled second only to Eleanor Roosevelt as one of America 's most respected females , is given her due . Or at least her showbiz due . This was a very informative documentary that is told with a subtle passion . I found it very warm and welcoming . If you have interest in entertainment history , this is a must see ! For the generation that grew up on female pioneer Gertrude Berg 's radio and TV shows , Aviva Kempner 's Yoo-Hoo , Mrs. Goldberg will likely serve as a welcome trip through memory lane . The real kick comes from seeing the stars of yesteryear in grainy film stock . Berg 's name no longer rings so many bells , but Aviva Kempner 's documentary Yoo-Hoo , Mrs. Goldberg may change that . Gertrude Berg was the Queen of All Media long before Howard Stern ever dreamed about being King . Accurately subtitled 'The Most Famous Woman in America You Never Heard Of , ' Aviva Kempner 's well-intentioned portrait of Gertrude Berg continues the director 's focus on unsung Jewish-American heroes . Intro to the most famous Jewish mother of the 20th century and the auteur behind her , making a strong case beyond nostalgia for her positive strong image and business acumen . Celebratory but clear-eyed . Yoo-hoo , Mrs. Goldberg benefits from a charismatic if elusive biographical subject that has all but faded from public view . 	Equal parts edification and entertainment , Kempner 's tender tribute to a forgotten pioneer of American entertainment is both richly deserved and long overdue .
1216754-art and copy The subjects seem so deluded by a sense of self-importance that they put forth any number of outrageous claims about the significance of their art in order to justify a life spent serving a potentially dubious interest . Art & Copy offers an intriguing -- some might say frightening -- glimpse into the world that has prompted a generation of Americans to religiously tune into the Super Bowl just to watch those short movies that sell product . Pray inserts facts that are eye-popping ( the food industry spends $ 34 billion annually on ads ) and alarming ( every year , the average child sees 20,000 TV commercials ) . An entertaining but also oddly naive documentary about American advertising . It does n't matter how much garrulous delusion the subjects spout . [ Director ] Pray buys it wholesale and propagates the myth that there 's something to respect about getting inside people 's heads and rewiring them into mass-consumptive lemmings . [ The ] relentlessly positive approach results in a movie that feels like it was made for an advertising convention , not general audience consumption ( let alone edification ) . It 's indispensable . Doug Pray asked them what it was like to change the world on behalf of someone else 's product The joy that these creative types experience when their work is successful and the seriousness with which they approach their craft comes shining through . Along the way , viewers get caught up in their exuberance . Like a good ad , Art & Copy bounds along and never bores . That 's a big credit to Pray 's savvy compilation and of editor Phillip Owens ' crisp cuts . 	Art & Copy does n't probe deeply enough , or think critically enough about its subject .
break up It is the Mutt & Jeff qualities of Aniston and Vaughn that have the most comic potential . Alas , it goes untapped here . The two stars remain painfully wrong for each other The most interesting so far of this summer 's blockbuster disappointments , the film 's willingness to buck audience expectations and at least try for something tougher makes it an admirable failure . A break-up of people from 2 different cultural worlds is inevitable , but this illustration does not rise beyond sitcom . It fails because it neglects to create characters we care about . At least one draft short of brilliance ... . [ but ] more palatable than the typical romantic comedy , thanks in large part to Vaughn 's engaging duets with the ensemble . She 's identified almost entirely by her haircut at the end -- just as the actress who plays her has been for much of her career . Just because performers click romantically off-screen does n't mean you need to pay good money to watch them in movies that are less interesting than the stories they inspire in supermarket tabloids . ... Comes apart at the seams , the victim of irreconcilable differences between Vaughn 's schtick and the flimsy script . The behavior of the two main charactres exists solely to be `` cute , '' while giving us no reason to believe these two people should be together in the first place . 	This anti-romantic comedy lacks both laughs and insight , resulting in an odd and unsatisfying experience .
zero effect Daryl Zero is a movie character for the ages . This hip blend of Sherlock Holmes and Howard Hughes is an offbeat suspense comedy . Has enough shrewd humor to keep an audience interested . Zero Effect is by no means a disastrous debut , but it does make you wonder what the guy might accomplish in his sophomore try . Both Mr. Pullman and the slyly restrained Mr. Stiller keep their characters entertaining even when Mr. Kasdan 's interest is elsewhere . Not only is it hilarious , but it 's a damn good detective story that has fun toying around with all the tired old conventions of the detective story There 's an idiosyncratic talent at work here with the potential to blossom into bigger , better and more accomplished films . It 's very humorous , my companions and I had a great time , and it 's interesting . Sorry to be so brief , I 'm trying to add a little mystery here ! Try as it might , `` Zero Effect '' just does n't amount to much . A strong debut , and a very fun movie . 	A promising debut for writer/director Jake Kasdan , Zero Effect overcomes its flaws with its off-kilter humor and likeable leads .
muppet treasure island There 's a gaping hole with Jim gone , however his son directs with great energy , and it 's almost impossible not to like Tim Curry and a bunch of Muppets on a reasonably literary pirate ship . Lively , enjoyable Muppet madness Pirates and the Muppets turn out to be a natural fit , even without the late Jim Henson . Disappointing Muppet movie . Too much Treasure Island , not enough Muppets . The Muppets hit the high seas . Hilarious ! The humor is up to Muppet par , with physical comedy , puns , running jokes , and layered gags ... Muppet Treasure Island is grand family entertainment . [ new DVD review ] Geena Davis and Renny Harlin could n't cut it with Cutthroat Island . Steven Spielberg nearly got the hook for Hook . But leave it to Miss Piggy and Kermit to discover uncharted gold in the shipwrecked-pirate genre . ... has little to offer all but the most die-hard Muppet fan . 	Though less Muppet-centric than the original trilogy , Muppet Treasure Island is an energetic , cheerful take on Robert Louis Stevenson 's classic adventure , with typically solid gags .
tropic thunder Tropic Thunder is raunchy , raucous and riotously funny . But so acutely self-conscious that the effect is one of a stand-up comedian furnishing color commentary on his own act . Tropic Thunder is the funniest film of the year . In the end , despite its flaws , this is a genuinely funny film , and there are n't that many of those around . A journey into Hollywood 's heart of darkness . Thunder is ambitiously blunt and blasphemous in its bombastic barbs of treasured absurdity ... [ a ] calculated comedy drenched in volumes of manufactured viciousness and succulent screwball vibrancy . One of the best comedies of the year . The first hour of the film has an energy and wit that makes it a joy to behold , but as Stiller tries to tie it all together into a cohesive hole , the humour drains from the piece , and it all becomes a little tiresome . It 's official : Summer is the season for adult comedies , too . Tropic Thunder is an often hilarious return to form for Stiller after almost a decade of lackluster comedies , but it 's also a wildly uneven effort that suffers from too much self-awareness to earn the status of bona fide classic . Even if Tropic Thunder does n't move you to tears , it deserves your consideration . 	With biting satire , plenty of subversive humor , and an unforgettable turn by Robert Downey , Jr. , Tropic Thunder is a triumphant late Summer comedy .
star trek into darkness You could spend the rest of the summer waiting for a better popcorn movie . But that would be highly illogical . JJ Abrams hits warp speed right from the start of Star Trek Into Darkness , kicking off the movie with a breathtaking sequence that combines breakneck thrills , deadpan comedy and deft use of Star Trek lore . Darkness is a cheery combo of classic catchphrases and young Hollywood heat ... And down goes Iron Man 3 . ... Every blockbuster should be this hefty , with the fleetness of warp . As in the first film , Chris Pine and Zachary Quinto are an inspired pairing as Kirk and Spock , and their squabbling bromance provides Into Darkness 's breathlessly-paced adventure with a heart . J.J. Abrams is n't only resuscitating the franchise . He 's improved it . Into Darkness is a sleek , thrilling epic that 's also a triumphantly witty popcorn morality play . It 's everything you could want in a Star Trek movie . The movie presses forward with a high-spirited wit and sense of purpose that makes other action extravaganzas look backward . Jettisoning the franchise 's optimistic , socially aware sci-fi , not to mention character development or a logical plot , Darkness turns out to be any Vulcan 's worst nightmare : Team America : World Police with Tribbles . so enjoyable that it becomes easy to forget that virtually everything in the film is a riff or spin on something we ( including only casual Star Trek fans ) have already seen 	Visually spectacular and suitably action packed , Star Trek Into Darkness is a rock-solid installment in the venerable sci-fi franchise , even if it 's not as fresh as its predecessor .
insider A seat-gripping near-thriller . A masterpiece , a brilliant dissection of recent US politics and the media by a scalpel-sharp screen sensibility . Gripping stuff . The film is accurate in its broad strokes . Absolutely riveting . A terrific piece of filmmaking by the always-reliable Michael Mann . A compelling , tautly depicted tale of corporate power and individual integrity . Director Mann may well have an Oscar contender here . Earnest , smart , handsome , well-acted and made with mastery . The movie reveals Michael Mann 's unparalleled ability to fashion taut suspense from unpromising material . Intelligent , magnificently acted , highly compelling as a thriller , and downright scary in its implications for the corporate-run world of the new millennium . 	Intelligent , compelling , and packed with strong performances , The Insider is a potent corporate thriller .
the hobbit an unexpected journey Fans of J.R.R . Tolkien may like sitting through a 169 minute film , that easily could have been trimmed by at least 50 minutes . But , I was constantly aware of the long running time . a drag-down , mildly diverting entertainment When the dwarves turn up mob-handed , kicking off a night of boisterous revelry , the laboured jests and jollity seem to go on forever . And the combination of dwarves , forced humour and familiar faces off the telly turn the occasion into bad panto . Remember the joke that The Fellowship of the Ring was just a bunch of people walking around for three hours ? In this case , it 's actually true . Like the sad , bug-eyed Gollum , moviegoers may not have realized how much they missed movies like this onscreen in the past several years . It 's a journey that any fan of Peter Jackson 's `` The Lord of the Rings '' Trilogy should enjoy . The Hobbit may not be as memorable as the Lord of the Rings trilogy , but it 's a mostly faithful adaptation that sticks to the same tones and themes of the source material . It 's like we returned to Disneyland to find it looking as magical as ever , but with most of the rides closed . The Hobbit : An Unexpected Journey is a story stretched too thin ; dragged out by drudging slowness and obvious padding that its handful of thrilling action sequences ca n't improve . A marvel of filmmaking wizardry and engrossing adventure storytelling , The Hobbit : An Unexpected Journey marks another triumph by director Peter Jackson who once again takes J.R. Tolkien 's words and brings them to life with skilful , passionate expertise . 	Peter Jackson 's return to Middle-earth is an earnest , visually resplendent trip , but the film 's deliberate pace robs the material of some of its majesty .
history boys A hugely enjoyable outing of subtle humour , witty words and a keen insight into human nature and the art of learning . During a mock-interview , Dorothy lays out the film 's simultaneous awareness and exploitation of its own limits . 'Imagine how depressing it is to teach five centuries of masculine ineptitude . ' There are no spontaneous moments on screen : The characters are n't reacting to each other ; they 're waiting for the cut to deliver a line they 've had memorized since [ the play ] played the London National . The History Boys is a movie that asks questions like 'What is education really for anyway ? ' and asks them in an altogether witty , brainy way . It turns history into what it really is , the story of our lives . Movies , unlike plays , tend to be just about a very few things , or they feel rushed and overly sweeping , as this one occasionally did . Plays can linger and chew on their themes and keep the audience engaged much more easily . ... despite all the earnestness ... the characters and their tribulations never engage our sympathy or interest . In the world of movies , it 's a rare treat to find anything as sophisticated and witty as Alan Bennett 's screenplay . The History Boys is much less about lighting and composition than it is about Bennett 's sharp , insightful script . The play 's the thing -- the only thing -- here A funny thing happened to The History Boys on the way to the screen . The players are the same , the dialogue is pretty much identical , but the vibrancy of the play -- its exhilarating immediacy -- has been muted . 	While not quite having the impact of its original stage version , The History Boys nevertheless is a witty and involving school drama .
looking for richard A remarkable entertainment ; funny , fascinating , and always entertaining . A thrill , for the Shakespearean novice and expert alike . If you go to see it , hang in there and you will be rewarded with something special . A first-rate study of a famous actor coming to grips with a world-class challenge . While there 's no harm in attempting to make Shakespeare more accessible , it 's hard to imagine this film exciting anyone except Pacino 's fans and those who are fatally charmed by celebrity actors . Looking for Richard is unlike any previous adaptation of the Bard 's work , and that 's reason enough to give it a shot . If a bigshot thespian like Al Pacino is having such a hard time with the text , what hope is there for the rest of us ? Looking for Richard is like a big , boisterous cinematic term paper . Pacino gets an A . The film is sloppily pieced together , as Pacino appears unsure of exactly what he wants to achieve . Looking for Richard is seldom boring , and certainly Pacino is eager to please . 	Looking for Richard a smart , fascinating behind-the-scenes look at adapting Shakespeare .
fish tank Fish Tank feels electrifyingly bold . And yet , taken as a whole , it 's frustrating . Much of what goes on here is seriously disturbing . Be thankful , then , for non-actress Jarvis ' mesmerizing performance . A vivid portrayal of life at society 's margins with a compelling turn from newcomer Jarvis . Little wonder it scored at Cannes . The film 's rough patches are ... considerably smoothed over by its performers . Jarvis , whom the director reportedly discovered at an Essex train station , is nothing less than a revelation in a performance that is tender , spiky and utterly fearless in its physical and emotional range . It 's a tough film and while the ground covered does not bring any surprises , the journey we take is filled with gritty realism and the outcomes realistic Katie Jarvis has a natural presence that matches the unsentimental minimalism of the film . The film becomes a caricature of arthouse miserabilism , which asserts that the only truths are the ugly ones . The film gains everything when it takes on the trappings of a thriller . As the teenager takes the fight to suburbia , there is a shocking sense of spatial transgression . A lean , empathetic and dramatically credible portrait of desperation and desire on the cider-splashed streets of adolescence . 	Cannes Jury Prize-winner Fish Tank is gritty British realism at its very best , with flawless performances from newcomer Kate Jarvis , and Michael Fassbender .
city slickers Good fun . Harmless fluff , but nothing exciting . Nifty drama about the life-changing experiences of some middle-aged men at a working dude ranch . Fun , funny movie . Jack Palance is great . It goes downhill once Jack Palance exits , but the early scenes are still worth it . A comedy that was and is ambitious and counterintuitive . silly entertainment Billy Crystal is hilarious as the fish-out-of-water cowpoke . Simplistic look at mid-life male wackiness , but the cast saves it with little effort . I found almost nothing funny about this film . Palance 's performance saved it . 	With a supremely talented cast and just enough midlife drama to add weight to its wildly silly overtones , City Slickers uses universal themes to earn big laughs .
winter in wartime Perhaps best suited to young teens , who will get a peer 's view of life during wartime that will make them question what they would do , were they to face similar circumstances . There are no great surprises anywhere in Martin Koolhoven 's film , but it 's a pleasing piece of craftsmanship . A solid , unhurried piece of work that does n't provide the adrenaline rush its subject would seem to invite , but may be all the more powerful for its deliberation . ... a suspenseful coming of age story with fine performances and ambience showing how war can affect ordinary lives . Visually unremarkable , and worse than that when Koolhoven tries too hard : During a dramatic execution scene , the film shifts to slow-motion and the soundtrack becomes awash in angelic , choral harmonies ; the effect is kitschy and bathetic . Koolhoven is able to strip away both visually and mentally our idealized cinematic notions of how the resistance fighters lived . It 's a lonely existence . It 's stark and it 's scary . And it makes for a compelling movie . This is an often emotionally harrowing depiction of a young idealist running smack into the brutal reality of occupied life . Nothing about Koolhoven 's film is stunning , but it 's a solid piece of work , occasionally feeling as tense as life-and-death situations with Nazis should be . Winter in Wartime does n't reinvent the World War II drama , but it does n't have to ; it works solidly within the genre with affecting if predictable results . View the Second World War through a child 's eyes and the result is n't hard to predict : a loss-of-innocence tale . Winter in Wartime is the boilerplate version , with the already dramatic facts of the era ramped up to melodramatic levels . 	A gripping , handsomely shot World War II melodrama with thriller elements successfully mixed in .
1210562-el bano del papa The cast of pros and amateurs provides realistic performances , and co-director Charlone 's lensing makes beautiful use of the rough landscape in a movie even the pope would enjoy . Although not the best imaginative movie title ever to grace a matinee sign , The Pope 's Toilet resonates with a distinctive warmth and sense of reality and purpose . You 'll certainly be rooting for Beto and his brood by the time the Popemobile rolls into town . El Bao Del Papa ( which translates as The Pope 's Toilet ) is an engaging and humane affair , never losing sight of its characters ' material hardships . Lots of bruised humour , quiet virtuosity - watch for the slow-motion montage of disaster - and doggy-eyed optimism . The movie is n't as bad as I feared , but I ca n't give it much of an endorsement , either . This bittersweet parable has loads of charm but several graver issues are also raised . Beto as a character is problematic - one minute hes a twinkly , moustachiod dreamer hoping for a better life ; the next he 's a macho bully who shoves his cowering wife around their shack . The film requires that we focus on the former and forgive the latter . A pseudo-documentary that focuses on the hardships and penuries of their characters with such visual and dramatic intensity that its irony is often pushed aside . Charming and hilariously offbeat . 	An offbeat charmer , The Pope 's Toilet is a humorous , well-crafted tale with plenty of heart and a poignant social message .
like mike Hollywood 's answer to an air ball . Offers a gentle summer fantasy for both grown-ups and little ones . Old-fashioned and predictable but surprisingly sweet and good-natured ... you should like 'Mike . ' However intoxicating young moviegoers might find Calvin 's on-court success , what was needful onscreen was more of the simple humanity a story about orphans should not only have recognized but delivered . Barely gets off the ground . Like Mike is what feel-good family movies are meant to be . It aims its humour and pathos at children without excluding adults . This is a lot of fun and Lil ' Bow Wow , now calling himself Bow Wow , is very charming . Kid-friendly . Lil ' Bow Wow 's got game . There 's no excuse to come within a hundred feet of a screen playing this monstrosity of a movie . 	A pleasant and innocuous diversion for kids , but adults may have trouble sitting through the movie 's predictable plotlines and schmaltz .
satin rouge While certainly more naturalistic than its Australian counterpart , Amari 's film falls short in building the drama of Lilia 's journey . An ebullient Tunisian film about the startling transformation of a tradition-bound widow who is drawn into the exotic world of belly dancing . An odd but alluring convergence of melodrama and fable . A movie that has charm but shows weaknesses not uncommon for a novice director . Refreshing . Belly dancing is n't always the most thrilling of dances , but it 's a blast to see these women shaking and rolling because they 're so thoroughly in charge of the male clientele and their own sexuality . an essentially awkward version of the lightweight female empowerment picture we 've been watching for decades There are many scenes of belly dancing , pure pleasure to watch . Part of the charm of Satin Rouge is that it avoids the obvious with humour and lightness . Satin Rouge is not a new , or inventive , journey , but it 's encouraging to see a three-dimensional , average , middle-aged woman 's experience of self-discovery handled with such sensitivity . 	Abbass shines at the center of this sensuous and vibrant film .
crow salvation Should they go back and make yet another Crow film , I suggest that they consider adding some originality . Plenty of bad dialogue , zero originality or depth . Although I would n't quite go so far as to recommend it , the movie does have a terrific look and some intriguing , albeit overly dramatic , acting . Near on par with the original ... A real surprise package While Salvation certainly is n't as bad as that first sequel , it still does n't come near the sheer coolness of the first one . A pleasingly low-budget demeanor . 	The Crow : Salvation adds nothing new to the series and is plagued by bad acting and dialogue .
star trek ii the wrath of khan Leonard Nimoy has rarely been so moving . This is one of the most popular in the series , thanks to a high action quotient ( including a tensely staged space battle ) , a suitably campy turn by Montalban , and the shock value of Spock 's 'death . ' Keep on Trekkin ' ... The Star Trek TV series boldly went where none of its movie versions have gone before or since in Meyer 's exceedingly space-worthy sequel . Star Trek II : The Wrath of Khan is a movie that transcends it 's genre , it 's format , it 's fan base to really get inside the hearts and heads of people across all barriers the world over . This is the way to make Star Trek movies RIGHT . Khaaaaaaaaaaaaaan ! The one thing that continues to stand out is the big emotional scene that floods the waterworks of every Trek fan in the audience . If this is the supposed high point for the Star Trek movie series , it 's still a low point for sci-fi . probably the best-ever trek movie The merely curious are warned . If Star Trek : The Motion Picture showed little of the Enterprise of the culty TV series , this sequel is at times a flat-out Khan-job . Star Trek II : The Wrath of Khan works as both a science fiction adventure story and as a thematically rich drama . 	Considered by many fans to be the best of the Star Trek movies , Khan features a strong plot , increased tension , and a sharp supporting performance from Ricardo Montalban .
bad boys ii A fun , if blood- and sun-soaked , ride . ... an occasionally entertaining but ultimately overlong and bloated summer action movie . In a painful way , these Boys are really 2 bad . Appallingly mean-spirited with ha-ha bullet wounds and dismemberments . The most visually and aurally offensive film since Mariah Carey 's Glitter . This film , whose nonplot seems to be motivated by a contempt for humanity , takes violence and turns it into a new form of pornography . This summer 's most dynamic action movie . You cant fault it for pure action , I spose , but it left me feeling cold . Lawrence is once again a bad boy , instead of just bad . Every last bone in its body is hateful , offensive , and sickening . 	Two and a half hours of explosions and witless banter .
alan partridge Does n't hit every target or land every joke , but Steve Coogan 's enthusiasm for the roleand the project as a wholeproves infectious . It 's a silly comedy and Alan 's a petty egomaniac , but Coogan is a hoot as he skewers regional British radio and sends up conceited fools . This is smart dumb comedy , with the main story working an idea that audiences anywhere can get : the fear of change . Steve Coogan in a frisky English comedy that clicks . Director Declan Lowney does an admirable job making a confined film look cinematic without overblowing it into action-comedy mode . Considering how hilarious the feature is , with a terrific wit , interest in silliness , and laudable speed , it 's a crime that it took this long for Partridge and his narcissistic antics to invade the states . Coogan is an old hand at the comedy of fear , envy , and bruised egotism , and the movie is packed with clever gags . Coogan 's gift for making Partridge a believably awful everyman makes Alpha Papa a welcome slice of accomplished British character comedy . Has plenty to recommend it , thanks to a string of memorable one-liners and Coogan 's unmatched knack for skin-crawling physical comedy . But this is a long way from the back-of-the-net strike it should have been . Even if it 's mock inspirational , the ending suggests that even the pettiest of us can occasionally step outside of our ego and catch a breath of fresh air . 	The Alan Partridge movie ditches the TV series ' nuanced humor for something broader , and succeeds in presenting the character on a global scale .
1190561-imaginarium of doctor parnassus I have no idea what it was about , but it was fascinating and wonderful . For the most part Gilliam has toned down the aggressive darkness of his last film , Tideland , pitching at the broader audience he reached for with Baron Munchausen and Brothers Grimm . A eulogy , a polemic , an intriguing mess : Dr Parnassus is ultimately more worth your time than many a polished creation , and it 's a must for Terry Gilliam completists , but this time out he delivers a feast for the eyes more than he satisfies intellectually If you 're game , Parnassus is a richly rewarding experience . If not , it comes off like pretentious nonsense . Ledger 's performance provides an adequate swansong for loyal fans on pilgrimages to the multiplexes this autumn . But many will exit scratching their heads . Gilliam ( TM ) s visually assaultive technique doesn ( TM ) t make it easy on either the story or the actors . It plays like a salvage job , with all the attendant compromises . Though the film is laden with backstory and exposition , not much actually happens onscreen . Parnassus is an eye-popping fairy tale , a timeless tale of good battling evil and Gilliam 's first film in a long while that wholly captures his vaudevillian spirit . A visual feast is served up in former Monty Python cast member Terry Gilliam 's fantasy -- credited to `` Heath Ledger and friends '' -- that should enthral loyal fans of the veteran 's colourful film history , but is more than likely to baffle Gilliam novices . More for Terry Gilliam completists and Heath Ledger 's more devoted fans than a general audience . 	Terry Gilliam remains as indulgent as ever , but The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus represents a return to the intoxicatingly imaginative , darkly beautiful power of his earlier work , with fine performances to match all the visual spectacle .
cruel intentions You may not like what you see , but you will enjoy it . Starts off as a twisted , messed up mind game , but ends up a typically sappy love story that , strangely , is n't even about love . The teen-age target audience will probably gobble Cruel Intentions right up , but for me this film boarders on creepy . The incest , drug use , and sex is there for all to see ; unfortunately , the mean spirited characters become downright depressing to watch , especially when intended for a teenage audience . A slick , guileless excuse to get teenagers in movies to behave with the sociosexual decadence network television forbids . This is the filmic answer to a pack of Spice Girl cards . Deliciously cunning . Neither the characters nor the events are exactly the same as those of the novel , but some of the same spirit comes across . Rarely has a film elicited more raucous unintended laughter . Just because it 's visually appealing does n't mean that you will fall in love with it . 	Even in a slick package and an attractive cast , the movie succumbs to bad acting and a bad script .
devils advocate How often does a film climax in a 15-minute scene of dialogue so provocative that the accompanying special effects can almost be ignored ? Far too bland and mediocre to really pull off such heavy handed themes ... O espetculo final compensa . Theron 's superlative acting in this supporting role fills out the storyline . [ Hackford ] seems stuck in a private limbo , unable to decide whether he 's making a special-effects flick or a pop-philosophical tract . Charlize Theron gives a stunning performance of writhing in agony which would work to great effect in a genuine horror film . A hell of a lot more fun than any film bearing John Grisham 's name . The movie never fully engaged me ; my mind raced ahead of the plot , and the John Grisham stuff clashed with the Exorcist stuff . High art this may not be , and certainly no Paradise Lost , but fine filmic entertainment it most definitely is . The movie 's greatest strength is that it becomes more complex and rewarding as it goes along . 	Though it is ultimately somewhat undone by its own lofty ambitions , The Devil 's Advocate is a mostly effective blend of supernatural thrills and character exploration .
my fair lady The charisma of the leads , the gratifying ( if poorly paced ) story arc and the hummable tunes allow us to get past some of the film 's cinematic weaknesses . Este divertido musical conta com timas atuaes do casal principal , belssimos figurinos e maravilhosa direo de arte . Hepburn is clearly awkward as the Cockney Eliza in the first half , and in general the adaptation is a little too reverential to really come alive . I 'll take it over Oliver ! and Gigi any day of the week . Loverly ! With elegance and taste , George Cukor rightly preserves the theatricality of the enterprise and provides a joyful experience to savour again and again . Superb rendering of stage musical with stellar cast and production . This remains one of [ Hepburn ] best-loved roles . Agreeable , but stagey version of the play . The film is absolutely loverly , even if the Blu-ray picture and sound could stand much improvement . 	Fans of the play may miss Julie Andrews in the starring role -- particularly when Marni Nixon 's singing comes out of Audrey Hepburn 's mouth -- but the film 's charm is undeniable .
jurassic park iii It 's not art ... it 's entertainment , and it knows it . Boy , does it entertain . An efficient and surprisingly palatable finale to the Jurassic franchise . Solid B-movie fun . Whatever their goal is , Jurassic Park III is a little jagged and a little harsh . But it 's also rather entertaining , even if you do expect to see the raptors wearing hockey masks and wielding chainsaws . Milking a Brontosaurus would be easier than milking this franchise any more . . . This pointless sequel is a tepid end ( if there is a God ) to the series The real stars of the sequel are the dinosaurs ... But look out for the flying Pteranodons , which we see flying off into the sunset as a precursor to yet another unnecessary sequel . The wonder of the first movie is long gone , but a few thrills still remain . Drama is minimal and character nonexistent . For kids who can handle nonstop action , it 's good scary fun . Whereas the success of sequels is generally dependent upon how many of the original stars and key filmmaking personnel such as writer and director , this excellent monster movie would stand on its own . 	Jurassic Park III is darker and faster than its predecessors , but that does n't quite compensate for the franchise 's continuing creative decline .
hotel rwanda Hotel Rwanda is a strange history lesson that leaves us more overlectured than properly overwhelmed . This is an achingly stunning film . Using a word my partner is very fond of , it is riveting ! In 2004 , with Darfur burning and Congo smouldering , has anything really changed ? All we can do is hope that films such as Hotel Rwanda remind us all -- moviegoer and politician -- of the terrible cost of doing nothing . A tragic and tastefully poised film that not only tackles human tragedy , but also faults in Western intervention . It has to be watched by as many people as possible . It 's simultaneously haunting and inspiring . A stunning portrait of a nimble and brave man , performing an exhausting and potentially deadly tap-dance among corrupt bureaucrats and soldiers , as he fights a relentless battle for his life and for the lives of his family , his friends and many more . Solid acting , a shocking-because-it's-true screenplay and wisely simple direction make `` Hotel Rwanda '' into a movie that you wo n't soon forget . A tale of heroism of a few people against a massive tide of hellish chaos . 	A sobering and heartfelt tale about massacre that took place in Rwanda while most of the world looked away .
ratatouille Ratatouille is the most straightforward and formulaic picture to date from Pixar Animation Studios , but it is also among the most enchanting and touching . The Ratatouille concept could be off-putting -- a rat who dreams of using his bubonic paws to cook for humans at a ritzy Parisian restaurant -- but it 's so funny and lovable that the ick factor vanishes almost immediately . I would have loved to have been present during the pitch meeting for `` Ratatouille . '' `` It 's , um , a little bit 'Willard , ' a little bit 'Like Water for Chocolate ' '' ! ... The greatest rat movie and the greatest food movie ever made . If rival studios ever adopted Pixar 's story process for their films , there would be no need for critics due to the exceptional quality of the movies being made . One of the most beautiful and complex digital films yet , layered with detail and atmosphere and dimensionally rich and fluid . In a sense , Ratatouille is a story about fulfilling one 's dreams , about going beyond preconceived boundaries and following your heart . A scrumptious and savory entre , delivered with wit and aplomb . It is the most delicious offering yet from those wizards at Pixar . Even more fun to watch than it is to say . Yes , better than Big Night . Yes , smarter than Babette 's Feast . There 's a brilliant 75-minute film here , and truthfully , I could watch the cooking scenes with Remy all day . But Pixar being Pixar , simplicity just is n't in the cards . 	Fast-paced and stunningly animated , Ratatouille adds another delightfully entertaining entry -- and a rather unlikely hero -- to the Pixar canon .
song of the sea 2014 Song of the Sea is an impressive feat of animation , made all the more enjoyable by the fact that it 's not trying to sell anything . `` Song of the Sea '' moves delicately but purposefully from pain to contentment and from anger to love . Magic and mysticism inhabit visual style in Moore 's Irish fairy tale A quite delightful piece of magical animation . This congenial animation may be somewhat unconventional , but children should respond to this nonetheless - and if not , parents most certainly will . Breathtakingly beautiful . `` Song of the Sea '' is the best feature-length animated film of 2014 . Moore 's second film continues his aesthetic style ... It 's like a storybook in motion . Sweet , aesthetically breathtaking ... ... a sweet journey of love and loss through Celtic mythology with a unique animation style that continues to surprise as it evokes a particular place and time . 	Song of the Sea boasts narrative depth commensurate with its visual beauty , adding up to an animated saga overflowing with family-friendly riches .
no reservations A souffl of a romantic and family comedy that stubbornly refuses to rise . Sometimes movies make sense in a logical way ; sometimes they make only emotional sense . No Reservations makes no damned sense at all . Breslin , that little thief , steals another average movie from her elders . Even though it is a romantic comedy , there is too much miserableness going round for the film to be truly enjoyable . Director Scott Hicks brings little subtlety of expression or personal voice to this remake of the far superior erotic-food German tale , Mostly Martha , though Eckhart and Zeta-Jones share together some appealing moments . The thing 's so charming and frothy and delightful and sentimental and beautifully shot and well-acted and sincere that it takes a good couple of hours before you start craving real nourishment . `` No Reservations '' is a bland movie about food . The show is middling fare that could have used more spice . An appropriate palate cleanser in between noisy summer action flicks . The satisfying culinary romance No Reservations divides and conquers by making us crave the utterly attainable -- spaghetti with fresh basil -- as intensely as we do either of its unattainable leads . There 's already a crazy behind-the-scenes restaurant movie out this summer , and it 's got a better story , and it 's a cartoon , and it stars a rat . 	This romantic comedy may look good on paper , but it 's too predictable and melancholy for the genre .
turistas Turistas '' eventually succumbs to the one unforgivable sin in a horror movie : It 's dull . Although quite pleasing to look at for a while -- lush jungles , gorgeous water features , bare young flesh all over the place -- the film is spiritually misshapen from the get-go . ... a lot of torture-p0rn aficionados are going to be throwing their money away , and that 's always funny . In any language the dark Turistas is not too bright . Duhamel should know that you can just stay in Vegas and get your kidney removed while getting robbed in a club populated by ladies in bikinis . As conflicted as the U.S. psyche : The movie locates the ghastly fates of its victims in the history of American arrogance , yet tells us to never trust a foreigner , even when she 's in a bikini . John Stockwell would rather have 9,000 shots of Melissa George in a bikini than be caught dead telling a story . You may just want to unpack that suitcase after seeing Turistas , a shocking and genuinely terrifying trip into the jungles of Brazil even if it is low-budget and sometimes cheesy to it 's core . Merece ser ignorado por ser pssimo , no por ser uma `` viso preconceituosa '' do Brasil . Turistas starts out as an effective little horror movie before devolving into an incoherent mess during its final 30 minutes . 	Beautiful scenery and cinematography ca n't save Turistas from its wooden acting and stale and predictable plot .
two for the money A morality play about the pervasiveness of sports gambling in America . One minute [ Pacino ] is a hyper-excitable Muppet in desperate need of swatting , the next he 's Michael Corleone redux , also in desperate need of swatting . Big , loud , glossy and entertaining . Pacino 's irritating hyperbolic delivery is just one of the problems in `` Two for the Money , '' the biggest being the convoluted and unconvincing script . Even Al Pacino ca n't bellow loud enough to drown out the raging stupidity that courses through Two for the Money , the latest in a lamentable line of movies in which Screaming Al mentors a protege with predictable results . Why did this dull , banal , boring movie get made ? Rene Russo 's husband wrote the script and Morgan Creek must have called in favors . The stop-start rhythm is bad on the movie 's gearbox and before long we realize that we 're looking at a highly polished lemon . Hedges on its lurid promise . The fate of the world always seems to rest on the outcome of the big game . And after the umpteenth big game , we 're long past caring . The hour spent on Brandon 's downfall comes off as an unrevealing procedure . 	Despite its sportsmanlike swagger , Two for the Money 's aimless plot is n't worth betting on .
drinking buddies 2013 A touching , truthful look at how friendships work when things go off road . Director Joe Swanberg and a terrific ensemble cast imbue a simple story with authenticity and shambling charm . Drinking Buddies is a crackling screwball comedy refracted through a low-key , mumblecore prism . I was a bit skeptical when I first learned about Drinking Buddies , because I did not expect Wilde and her cohorts to be up for the task ; thankfully , I was proven wrong , and the actors go places that I would never expect studio-seasoned actors to go . finely observed naturalist comedy of manners ... is also a slyly inverted romcom , with erotic desire in fact the obstacle that must be overcome if these two friends are to be reconciled . Though the question is usually when the expected will occur , not if , anticipating what 's coming next does n't entirely diminish the impact once these recognizable pieces fall into place . The acting and improv , by the whole cast , is sublime ... Workshopped , improvised and mostly shot in small spaces , Swanberg 's intimate drama is teased out with killer , subtle performances . The story meanders , purposefully , and does n't lead to the places a similar studio film would go ; Swanberg recognizes that disillusionmnet and disappointment are more frequent and universal occurences than heartbreak . A quietly thrilling romance , an amusingly serious drama , a lovable relationship captured on film . What more can we ask for ? 	Smart , funny , and powered by fine performances from Olivia Wilde and Jake Johnson , Drinking Buddies offers a bittersweet slice of observational comedy .
kill bill volume 2 Corrige tous les dfauts du premier film . Un vrai dlice ! If Vol . 1 could be likened to a 100-yard dash , than Vol . 2 is akin to a mile-run , with the performers pacing themselves at strategic points . Those with indomitable patience may find some reward in the final half hour of Vol . 2 . You know , I really liked all of the characters in these two movies . Treads emotional waters that barely rippled the surface of Volume 1 . Chapter 75 : Quentin Still Loves Himself ( Lest You Thought It Was Only a Summer Thing ) If Kill Bill is a comeback film , Tarantino 's future career prospects look about as good as Mike Tyson 's . The Emperor 's new clothes are showing . Vol . 2 is a great conclusion to a great ( albeit , as of yet , nonexistent except in theory ) film , but it is not a great film . For those eager to take the ride , this is a nostalgic banquet of movie cliches lovingly preserved and enshrined . This is , to cut to the chase , a masterpiece . 	Talkier and less action-packed than Vol . 1 , Kill Bill Vol . 2 , nevertheless delivers the goods for those expecting a satisfying conclusion to this two-parter .
black knight Are there worse movies than Black Knight ? Yes -- and there are worse agonies than being stabbed with a butter knife . Subjecting knights , lords , and damsels to his brash 21st century streetwise ways , Martin is armored with plenty of laughs . As lso claims to be a jester , 'You have to admire his commitment . He 's no longer funny , but he refuses to give up the joke . ' A time-travel comedy that does n't go anywhere we have n't been before . Has about as much swagger as its bland and basic title . Connecticut Yankee has a funnier blank flyleaf than Black Knight has screenplay . A rip-roaring time-travel comedy tailored beautifully to Martin Lawrence 's protean talent . Represents yet another blown opportunity to raise Martin Lawrence 's game to a higher level . The filmmakers ... seem to have been inspired mainly by contempt for the audience : everything about their work feels lazy and slapdash . ... there 's not a lot in it that will offend anyone ... unless you count dull , boring , and unoriginal as offensive . 	Black Knight feels like a lazily constructed movie , filled with lame gags and constant mugging from Lawrence .
apocalypto Damn if the movie , through Mel 's sheer determination , does n't almost turn from a fight-n-flight gore fest into a moving meditation on a civilisation in the throes of decline . Almost . Gibson is still seeking life amid death , but the balance is off . Brutal , compelling and utterly convincing , `` Apocalypto '' is an adventure that stuns , overwhelms and , above all , entertains . Apocalypto is assertive with its demand for suspended disbelief . Clearly Gibson has some powerful , elemental moviemaking stuff going on . While there has been no shortage of recent films that decry the horrors of war and man 's inhumanity to his fellow man , I know of none other quite this sickeningly powerful . It has more in common with every modern Hollywood crowd pleaser than anything else- complete with crotch jokes , nagging mother-in-laws , and silly dialogue . Whatever you think of Mel Gibson , the person , forget it and marvel at Mel Gibson , the filmmaker . It 's unlike any other movie to reach theaters this year and , because it is as visual an experience as it is visceral , it is best seen on a large screen . With impressive direction and strong performances this is a hugely enjoyable action thriller , even if the violence may be a little on the extreme side . Passable but not really memorable , it 's a movie that should have been released over the summer , which still reigns as the best time of year to see a guy get killed with frog-poisoned darts . 	Apocalypto is a brilliantly filmed , if mercilessly bloody , examination of a once great civilization .
tinker tailor soldier spy Put another way , if you 're expecting Oldman or Hardy to go all Jason Bourne on some Russkies , you 'd be better off staying home and watching Rambo . ... conveys a rarefied moral atmosphere , a high , cold place above politics and conventional morality ... where aesthetic concerns - the elegance of a given move - might seem as sound a reason to act as ideology or love of country . Director Tomas Alfredson has a feel for the downscale look of London during the period that the novel depicts , but little else . Stick with the Guinness version . Hitchcock once said 'What is drama but life with the dull bits cut out ? Tinker Tailor is hellbent on creating drama out of only the dull bits - and as interesting as the movie is to look at , it 's not very suspenseful at all . Alfredson 's take on John le Carre 's seminal 1974 espionage thriller is intelligent and absorbing , both thematically and visually , benefiting from the passage of time since the fall of the Berlin Wall . The movie certainly puts the cold in Cold War , but our curiosity needs a hook to hang from . The film takes some shortcuts in the storytelling department that end up undermining the drama . A movie of deceptions within deceptions and clues that glide by in a murmured flash . It turns the very process of figuring things out into a vision of the world . `` Tinker , Tailor , Soldier , Spy , '' with its meticulous Cold War details and labyrinthine plot , is like a smoky 25-year-old single malt scotch whiskey . It hits you hard , but goes down smooth . These guys make proper English diction as compelling as a gunfight , and `` Tinker Tailor '' as satisfying as any shoot-'em-up using real bullets instead of words to get its point across . 	Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy is a dense puzzle of anxiety , paranoia , and espionage that director Tomas Alfredson pieces together with utmost skill .
va savoir It 's a supremely smart film . It lacks the sparkle that an outstanding romantic comedy should have , but is an entertaining little farce , still . In a time when most 90-minute comedies unfold at the pace of a Galapagos tortoise , this 21/2-hour divertissement is souffle-light and airily playful . There are a number of fantastic scenes in Va Savoir , but the realities of its characters and their portrayals -- some no doubt a function of a different culture , others undercooked in any language -- undermine its effectiveness . It gets frenetic , in the French way , but it never stops getting amusing . This is what happens when you let grown-ups make movies . Takes its time showing its hand , but that is the source of its satisfactions , and its charm . The director takes forever -- over two and one half hours -- to say almost nothing . It will slowly envelop you , if you let it . Rivette ... co-wrote Who Knows ? with witty repartee and verbal encounters staged with effervescent amusement . ... a playful romantic comedy about six characters in search of love ... 	Constructed with grace and wit , Va Savoir is a light-hearted yet cerebral romantic comedy of intertwining relations .
1080867-rainmaker Director Francis Ford Coppola makes a good effort , but his interesting character-based approach eventually dissolves into yet another uninspired courtroom drama . Francis Ford Coppola , who wrote and directed the film , has made the most of Grisham 's ground-level realism . Surprisingly strong Grisham tale . Celebrates the zeal for justice espoused by a rookie Memphis lawyer . It 's no classic , but it 's worth seeing . To Coppola 's credit this tale , which could have been hammered home with all the hysteria of a mega- melodrama , is played out low-key almost as though the trial scenes were taking place as cinema verite . The best Grisham film yet mostly because it does not take itself too seriously . Coppola has never been particularly known for his comic touch , but here he seems bent on leavening the melodrama with as many laughs as possible , and they are generally honest and well-earned . The Rainmaker aside from being competently made is not something that stands out for being fresh . The intelligence and subtlety of The Rainmaker took me by surprise . 	Invigorated by its talented cast and Francis Ford Coppola 's strong direction , The Rainmaker is a satisfying legal drama -- and arguably the best of Hollywood 's many John Grisham adaptations .
10010668-stepfather Astonishingly dull and carefully scrubbed of all but the most sanitized violence in the name of securing a PG-13 rating . 100 minutes of dopey behavior and filmmaking inanity wrapped up tight in a bland , gutless PG-13 wooby , taking a proven premise and watering it down to a parade of nonsense created only to tickle gullible teen audiences . Lazy , predictable and seriously lacking in shocks . Comparing the original to this one is like comparing regular basketball to donkey basketball -- a perfectly good thing has been needlessly `` improved '' by making everything bigger and dumber and by allowing a bunch of jackasses to dump all over it . Better to honor history and rent the original . a shabby substitute for its original . Ooh , daddy ! If you want some old-fashioned cheesy suspense , look no farther than 'The Stepfather . ' Poorly scripted and executed , this quickie slasher remake suffers from weak casting and does n't even exploit the sexual politics involved in a major gender change from the 1987 feature , which satirized the rigid family values and has become a classic . It 's hard to get absorbed in a story with so many unresolved issues . Horror remake has more tension than blood . 	This tepid remake of the 1987 cult classic lacks the tension and satirical undercurrents of the original .
final destination Becomes little more than a typical -- if highly atmospheric -- slasher film , complete with the cheesy dialogue and gimmicky conclusion . Has the ability to both surprise and frightentwo things that are rarely found in today 's horror films . It 's safe to say you will never ever look at flying in airplanes the same way again . An original shocker that keeps the tension going . A grossly underrated horror film with an intriguing premise and foreboding atmosphere . For a horror flick about precognition , Final Destination is sadly lacking in the ability to foresee what will thrill and chill audiences . Smarter and more original than most [ Dead Teenager Movies ] . I 'll take this any day over Scream 3 . Generates a respectable amount of suspense and takes a few unexpected turns while covering familiar territory . The schemes that Wong uses to dispatch these mostly attractive characters are not only ingenious : they provide some of the comic tongue-in-cheek moments that are part and parcel of the genre . An interesting combination of well-mounted horror flick and sheer campy experience . 	Despite a panel of X-Files ' alums at the helm and a promising premise , flighty performances and poor execution keep Final Destination from ever taking off .
let the fire burn 2013 The second most striking thing about Jason Osder 's documentary Let The Fire Burn is that it 's composed entirely of archival footage . But the most striking thing is the actual story it tells with that footage . Piecing the components together , and only sparingly deploying intertitle cards for clarity , Let the Fire Burn brings this 28-year-old tragedy front and center again - vividly , viscerally . Resurrecting into the present literally from the ashes and beneath the rubble of the dubious past , are lessons gleaned from the Philly police bombing and incineration of MOVE members . Shedding a light on a dark US history of war against its own people . A stain on a city 's past Apart from the score and the very occasional basic intertitle to help us along , all we see and hear is footage from the day . We 're immersed in the present of this world . Let the Fire Burn outshines the lackluster likes of Our Nixon by combining the death-trip of a Senna with the radical history of Black Power Mixtape . It 's scary as both a movie and a still-reverberating moment in time . Brilliantly edited , the film moves back and forth in time , first tracking the events leading up to the confrontation through news reports of the day . [ Osder ] cuts between news footage of the events as they unfurled and testimony from hearings held afterward to create a stark , nonjudgmental portrait of an incident that probably need n't have happened . Let the Fire Burn offers an even-handed depiction of the racial conflict that led to the conflagration on Osage Avenue . 	Smartly edited and heartbreakingly compelling , Let the Fire Burn uses archival footage to uncover a troubling -- and still deeply resonant -- chapter in American history .
1197992-perfect game Anyone much older than , say , 10 , will likely find the underdog saga sappy and manipulative , not to mention filled with sports movie cliches , including the following statement : `` It will take a miracle to make them into a real team . '' The odd engaging moment is always followed by a cloying eye-roller , such as when a nearly-new ball appears on their dusty Monterey sandlot . `` Father , what does it mean ? '' `` It means God wants us to play baseball ! '' This inspirational film , written by first-timer ( and producer ) W. William Winokur , is not for cynics or those resistant to cute kids ( and child actors sometimes given to mugging ) . A welcome addition to the expanding genre of baseball films . Notable only for being a catalog of just about every kid-pic cliche ' ever committed to film . As much about sports trophies as a triumph over the racism and sexism of the time . And that rare film for children with problem-solving solutions other than violence , in a not always welcoming world . What 's surprising are the poignant undercurrents about race and jingoism . there is a tricky line for a film to walk between earnest sweetness and syrupy schmaltz . The Perfect Game pulls off this balancing act with a combination of smart direction and even smarter casting It 's all stencil work without a single touch of novelty , inspiration or originality . The Perfect Game is an earnest tribute , but the story could have been rendered more convincingly . 	It 's bogged down with an unfocused script and countless sports movie cliches , but The Perfect Game still manages to charm with its unabashed sweetness and a stirring final act .
310 to yuma [ G ] loriously old-fashioned in the best movie way , redolent of its pulpy , junky roots in the pure adventure thrills of dime novels but also heady with consequence ... Two gripping hours so richly realized you wo n't want them to end . Boasting a taut script , precise mise-en-scene , and stellear acting from Russell Crowe and Chistian Bale , this oater immediately posits itself as an A-Level Western , much more than an honorable remake of the 1957 film . Will it revive the genre ? Decent-enough entertainment , though it 's hardly going to breathe new life to a genre whose demise has been reported for at least 30 years . These are two top-notch actors - one British , one Australian - who are utterly at home in this most American of genres . Wade 's voice sounds like far-off thunder wrapped in velvet ; Evans ' every word is marked by exhaustion and edginess . ... These men have real complexity , and so do the actors assigned to play them . Director James Mangold 's update of the Elmore Leonard short story that spawned the original 1957 Western , is a gritty action-packed movie that trades on the talents of its headstrong leading men . Director James Mangold , who hit his stride with the Johnny Cash biopic Walk The Line , delivers another solid punch with this hard-edged and marvelously acted remake of Delmar Daves ' classic 1957 western . Russell Crowe and Christian Bale make terrific foes in this classic western tale . Superb . 	This remake of a classic Western improves on the original , thanks to fiery performances from Russell Crowe and Christian Bale as well as sharp direction from James Mangold .
lost world jurassic park Whereas Steven Spielberg 's original Jurassic Park filled viewers with awe over the grandeur of nature , his sequel , The Lost World : Jurassic Park , achieves 134 minutes of tedium . The Lost World certainly has its moments but it 's a rather schizophrenic movie that lacks the simplicity of the original . Most of the writing is the blandest sort of twaddle , jokes you can practically recite along with actors . Not as good as the original , but as far as sequels go , it 's way , way above average . There are many more dinosaurs this time around , taking up much more screen time ... But do n't expect to be wowed as much as you were by Jurassic Park . I never held The Lost World in such high esteem , but I watched it multiple times and always felt it got a bit of a bum rap . After checking it out again fourteen years later , I still feel the same way . It 's clear right from the word go that The Lost World : Jurassic Park marks a considerable step down from its sublime predecessor ... The Lost World has the vibe of 'obligatory sequel , ' just what director Steven Spielberg probably wanted to avoid . If you liked Jurassic Park , you 'll probably like this one a little less . What the first film did poorly , this film does worse . The story , it must be said , is no great shakes , although it 's not half bad by action-movie standards . But the action -- that 's why we go see movies like this -- is terrific . 	The Lost World demonstrates how far CG effects have come in the four years since Jurassic Park ; unfortunately , it also proves how difficult it can be to put together a truly compelling sequel .
1174279-wanted For those looking for an instinctively engaging zero to anti-hero tale , filled with all sorts of imaginative and hip visual shenanigans , one could do far worse than this offering . Wanted shrieks along at such an unrelieved high pitch homicidal pace as the pathological protagonist passively morphs from dork to demon , however righteous , that the audience may soon start craving some of those pills that McAvoy 's been popping . ... when Freeman , Jolie , McAvoy and the rest get a chance , there 's even some decent acting going on . It 's almost as if the great Loom of Fate dropped a stitch and willed it . Red-Bull-fueled adolescent male fantasy cribs from the past , while offering a few brain-splatting diversions of its own . More Coherence Wanted I `` wanted '' to love Wanted but I only liked it . It 's Alice in Wonderland for grown-ups and you 've never seen action like this before , but the script really could have used a polish . I 've watched a movie that , while fiercely entertaining , made me fear for the emotional health of my gender . You have a problem with that ? [ Bekmambetov ] has n't just made a thriller with Wanted , he 's redefined the genre . Agreeably slick pop nihilism , getting a kick out of its own excesses . If you 're one of those summer movie fanatics , the kind of person who values non-stop action and cutting-edge special effects to the exclusion of character and story , then the new movie `` Wanted '' is certainly the film you want to see 	Wanted is stylish , energetic popcorn fare with witty performances from Angelina Jolie ( playing an expert assassin ) , James McAvoy , and Morgan Freeman that help to distract from its absurdly over-the-top plot .
101 dalmatians The fact that 101 Dalmatians plays easily alongside both the oldest and most recent of Disney 's best is tribute to just how modern it was and continues to be . It 's lovely . Surprisingly suspenseful , too . Cruella De Vil is so much a tour de force that she single-handedly snatches the movie away from any retroactive comparisons to post-classical Disney features whose sloppiness is the is their only saving grace . However much the film breaks with Disney tradition , it 's still a winning effort that mixes cuteness with dry wit in the service of a fast-paced , emotionally charged adventure tale . This was the last Disney animated feature ( 1961 ) that Uncle Walt lived to see through personally ; it ca n't be a coincidence that it 's also the last Disney animated feature of real depth and emotional authenticity . Then and now , Disney fans of all ages have thrilled to the animation-ambitious sight of the titular pack , and chilled at the villainy of mad diva Cruella De Vil . [ Blu-ray ] A rather clever idea , if a bit unsettling . No offence to Glenn Close , but nothing quite compares with the original Cruella DeVille . The definitive telling of an oft-told tale , Disney 's family-friendly animated adventure exhibits plenty of energy , wit and style . They do n't make them like this anymore ... unfortunately . 	With plenty of pooches and a memorable villain ( Cruella De Vil ) , this is one of Disney 's most enduring , entertaining animated films .
1104203-pledge Its grip is on the mind but not the heart -- a problem for a film that clearly aims for some emotional impact . Drags us through dark places , without convincing us it 's a journey worth taking . It understands the relativism of right and wrong and takes a kind of perverse pleasure in reminding us that there are some things we 'll never know . The story falls into the trap of using too many twists , red herrings and coincidences . Penn as director shows how he can turn an ordinary movie scene -- how many times have we seen a jailhouse interrogation ? -- into something inventively , thrillingly singular . This is one of Nicholson 's finest performances and that 's saying one hell of a lot . Sometimes lethargic but ultimately moving and lyrical . Other than re-iterating the well-known fact that 'life sucks , ' I did n't really get much out of this movie . Jack Nicholson more than delivers the goods in his portrayal of a retired policeman thoroughly obsessed by his last murder case . Thanks to Nicholson , The Pledge hits viewers hardest as a superb character study , a poignant story of well-intentioned obsession . 	Though its subject matter is grim and may make viewers queasy , The Pledge features an excellent , subtle performance by Jack Nicholson .
schindlers list The movie exudes an inescapable realism . Unlike a pastiche of newsreel footage , however , Spielberg craftily imbues Steven Zaillian 's masterful screenplay with an emotionally charged examination of calculated brutality . This is a beautifully crafted , hopeful movie . Many of the images , like the invasion of the Krakow ghetto , unfold like a collective nightmare of unspeakable brutality and dread . The moving film may be arduous to watch , but brilliantly acting and painstaking accuracy make it a must-see . What Spielberg has done in this Holocaust story is simply and forcefully place us there . Spielberg 's tribute to the Holocaust reps Hollywood cinema at its best . Looking at the phenom from Schindler 's narrow POV , the film is sharply-written and anchored by three great actors , Liam Neeson , Ben Kingsley and Ralph Fiennes . Authentic intensity , emotionalism and botch : the first two marry unexpectedly well , and the third element is by far the smallest , but it is there , and it means that the film is less than the touted breakthrough for the cinema . See website for more details . There 's no trust here from the director that the audience might be able to fathom the horrors of the Holocaust if the lines between good and bad are n't distinctly drawn . Schindler 's List , despite blatant compromises , is a rending historical document . 	Schindler 's List blends the abject horror of the Holocaust with Steven Spielberg 's signature tender humanism to create the director 's dramatic masterpiece .
stalag 17 Simultaneously fiery and farcical , it 's a fitting final third for Wilder 's 1950s hat trick that also includes Sunset Blvd and Ace in the Hole The thing that will stay with you about this one is clearly William Holden 's performance . Classic prisoner-of-war flick , powered by Holden 's indelible performance The good greatly outweighs the bad , particularly in the profile of Holden 's character , a pragmatic , self-centered cynic whose heroism , when it is finally called upon , appears to come from deep within the barriers he has placed inside of himself . The gags are so over-the-top they deserve a laugh track . Interesting depiction with a pretty decent performance from Holden and supported by a credible cast . Taut drama , a real surprise , considering Wilder directs . Not Wilder 's best , but with compensations The prison story had an offbeat flavor that was pleasing . Grimly hilarious , subversive and defiant , rough around the edges , and more than a little sad . 	Stalag 17 survives the jump from stage to screen with flying colors , thanks to Billy Wilder 's typically sterling direction and a darkly funny script .
i am trying to break your heart The unexpected drama captured puts I Am Trying to Break Your Heart in the good company , if not quite the league , of Let It Be and Gim me Shelter . Features tons of entertaining footage of the band in the studio as well as an enlightening commentary from music critics Greg Kot and David Frick . If you 're a Wilco fan , drop what you 're doing and head in . Even if you 're not , the tension of Tweedy literally getting sick with anger is pretty universal stuff . It is an often overlooked gem of a movie , chronicling the creative process of making a personal record in more detail than has even been seen . Also , the film is helped tremendously by some great music from Wilco , and a ironic , triumphant twist of real-lif Largely a for-fans artifact . It 's a very tasteful rock and roll movie . You could put it on a coffee table anywhere . If you are n't already a fan of Wilco , a critical darling led by the talented and wily songwriter Jeff Tweedy , the film does little to enlighten or recruit . An exciting and involving rock music doc , a smart and satisfying look inside that tumultuous world . A cohesive demonstration of why Wilco , as a whole , is one of the most compelling musical entities working today . Jones gives the faithful a surprisingly intimate portrait of the guardedly vulnerable Tweedy , along with a wealth of potent performance footage that captures Wilco in all its battered and unbowed glory . 	Besides being a treat for Wilco fans , I Am Trying to Break Your Heart also exposes the workings of a profit-driven music industry .
1020662-suspiria Only catches fire when it has run out of imagination to end it in any other way but through a pyrotechnic display . There is little logic in 'Suspiria , ' just the exuberance of individual scenes . Dario Argento 's best-known film is a Cinemascope , pinwheel lollipop-colored spin through a haunted German dance academy . Argento 's skilful use of unsettling , intense colour and stunning set designs adequately obscure the film 's numerous structural flaws . Edgar Wright summed up the experience of watching Suspiria with his typical insight . `` It 's like a dream you 've had when you 've eaten too much cheese . '' A get-under-your-skin makes no sense classic with some of the scariest images ever put on film . There are horror films that scare and there are horror films that quake the senses ; Suspiria still rattles twenty-five years after its original release . Its outlandish , confounding style [ does ] more than virtually any other film to create the exact sort of unsettled , panicky mood in the viewer that is at the heart of horror . The final revelations are n't especially difficult to discern and ultimately are a tad unrewarding but Argento never takes his foot off the atmospheric pedal , and the anxiety in the viewer lingers until the credits begin to roll . A strange combination of the art house and the slaughterhouse , it may be too violent for the typical cineaste and too contrived for the typical gore-hound . Yet somehow Argento impressively straddles both worlds , offering a unique vision ... 	The blood pours freely in Argento 's classic Suspiria , a giallo horror as grandiose and glossy as it is gory .
1031385-jungle book Every one of the bunch is memorable , and each plays gracefully into the action of the film . Whatever it lacks in heroic reach it more than makes up for in sociable personality and devastatingly expressive animation from the Disney masters , making it an underground classic that 's impressively stood the test of time . Fun characters , irresistible songs -- a Disney classic . The literally last-minute stab at domestic foreplay is simply unbelievable , but Baloo 's lip-licking post-mortem ( `` I still think he 'd a made one swell bear '' ) is what sticks . The standout song goes to Harris , a rhythmic 'Bare Necessities ' extolling the value of a simple life and credited to Terry Gilkyson . ... the characters , music , and animation more than make up for any shortcomings , and the result is pleasant entertainment for everyone . It 's a slight tale , of course , and incredibly short , but the characters and songs are pretty much perfect viewing time and again . Disney 's grandniece recently cast aspersions on the picture , but I do n't share her pessimism . Reflects a conservative , imperialist , 'do n't mix the races/species ' worldview . Yet it 's also about friendship and truthfulness , and it 's just plain fun . A witty animated feature from Disney based on the famous Rudyard Kipling stories . 	With expressive animation , fun characters , and catchy songs , The Jungle Book endures as a crowd-pleasing Disney classic .
singin in the rain If I were only allowed to own one musical -- and I love Hollywood musicals -- this would be it . The ultimate nostalgic source text is itself a pomo homage to a lost moment . Mandatory viewing for even the casual moviegoer . ... this one 's the Taj Mahal , Armstrong 's footprint on the moon , the 2001 Arizona-New York World Series , the Clash 's London Calling , and the perfect foamy head on an expertly poured Guinness . Come rain or shine , the Hollywood musical never got any better than this rip-roaring Stanley Donen/Gene Kelly classic . ..light , frothy , and charming , a complete delight from beginning to end . There is no movie musical more fun than Singin ' in the Rain , and few that remain as fresh over the years . A rare musical whose story -- scripted by Betty Comden and Adolph Green -- is just as good as the songs . The definitive musical is timeless , capturing a large portion of truth about the movie business ... It is an improbable masterpiece ; a film where everything just has that indistinguishable quality of fitting together . 	Clever , incisive , and funny , Singin ' in the Rain is a masterpiece of the classical Hollywood musical .
death to smoochy This kind of dark comedy requires a delicate , surgical touch . But director Danny DeVito and screenwriter Adam Resnick ( remember Cabin Boy ? ) just pound away . The script boasts some tart TV-insider humor , but the film has not a trace of humanity or empathy . In Death to Smoochy , we do n't get Williams ' usual tear and a smile , just sneers and bile , and the spectacle is nothing short of refreshing . A broad , braying yuk fest that revels in coarse jokes ... lacks the courage of its own cynicism ... and refuses to develop its own premise . This is a particularly toxic little bonbon , palatable to only a chosen and very jaundiced few . Considering that it 's meant to be a comedy about a TV children 's show , DeVitto 's picture is particularly irritating , nasty , and mean-spirited . ... instead go rent `` Shakes The Clown '' , a much funnier film with a similar theme and an equally great Robin Williams performance . Sadly , a pending death for Smoochy is not instantaneous enough . Comdia de humor negro com direo excessiva de DeVito , traz Edward Norton em um bom desempenho . uma pena que o roteiro no tenha sido melhor aproveitado , j que este filme poderia ser mais interessante . Death to Smoochy has some of the same determinedly twisted , tumbleweed energy as [ DeVito 's ] The War of the Roses and Throw Mama From the Train . What it lacks , though , is real wit . 	The talent involved ca n't save a script that has nowhere to go with its promising premise .
jerry maguire It talks the talk but does n't walk the walk . Or , in other words , it simply does n't have heart . `` Jerry Maguire '' does n't stop until it shows you the quan . Crowe is an extremely gifted writer who has a keen understanding of his characters . Jerry Maguire is a lovely film , and an extremely fun film full of moment-to-moment observation . I just could n't buy into the redemption of Jerry Maguire . There is an absolute poetry to the casting of Tom Cruise as Jerry Maguire . Tom Cruise is in top form playing Jerry Maguire , a slick sports agent with a heart . Traces of Crowe 's now-trademark style of filmmaking are evident here , making Maguire a sort of launching pad for what we hope are better things to come . Cameron Crowe 's romantic comedy is well acted by Tom Cruise and Cuba Gooding Jr. ( in an Oscar-winning turn ) , but as a tale of redemption , the movie is not too deep and goes out of its way to satisfy viewers ' expectations of a happy ending . Jerry Maguire is slick but not quite believable . 	Anchored by dazzling performances from Tom Cruise , Cuba Gooding Jr. , and Rene Zellweger , as well as Cameron Crowe 's tender direction , Jerry Maguire meshes romance and sports with panache .
aloha 2015 Aloha , for all its spasms of charm , feels like a push-button romance , its heroes glibly spouting lines with the hope that the words come to mean something . Cameron Crowe writes movies like he 's calling us in eighth grade with his heart on fire . Suddenly Adam Sandler 's working vacations in Hawaii look a bit better . Island natives should n't be upset over being excluded from Crowe 's movie ; they should be mad because they 're in it . In Aloha , Crowe 's fabled generosity toward his characters and actors becomes special pleading . Cameron Crowe used to make wonderful movies . I do n't know what Aloha is about . I can tell you what happens in it , but that wo n't really help . At least this feels like a Cameron Crowe movie . I 've lost count of how many times Alec Baldwin enters a movie just at the point it desperately needs a comic lift . Crowe displays a willingness to reach for ambitious ideas and big-hearted , emotionally naked moments that other name-brand filmmakers are too terrified to explore . Aloha is a big mess , but it 's also at war with American cynicism , and wars get messy . If Cameron Crowe ever succeeds in making a Hawaiian Casablanca , I would love to see it , but this failed attempt feels like the bastard offspring of Casablanca , Inherent Vice , Goosebumps , and Baywatch Hawaii . 	Meandering and insubstantial , Aloha finds writer-director Cameron Crowe at his most sentimental and least compelling .
xxy What could easilyhave been an exploitative freak show is instead a somber , earnest drama about the issues facing intersexed individuals -- those born with male and female genitalia . Ricardo Darin ... again proves that he can break your heart with a look , conveying unspoken emotion with a glance that taps you into his pain . The movie 's images are frequently startling , its performances sharply observed and quirky , and its take on its subject matter undeniably provocative . An intimate , atmospheric character study with a lingering erotic charge , Luca Puenzo 's XXY is one of the year 's most impressive directing debuts . A beautifully made , superbly acted drama that packs a powerfully emotional punch and delivers a passionate message about acceptance . Exquisitely acted story of a intersex teenage 15-year-old girl who will not commit herself to surgery to correct the duality of genitalia . Even when the film overdoses on its own downcastness or on dubious similes and symbolisms , you can feel why the characters as well as the filmmakers are humbled in more than one way by the conceptual intricacies and the high emotional stakes of the essent Argentine writer-director Puenzo invests this tricky story with real soul , bringing the characters and their situation to vivid life . Under Puenzo 's attentive yet strangely enervated direction , there 's not much dramatic urgency here . The movie is a liberal plea without liberation . 	This sharp directorial debut by Lucia Puenzo treats the challenging subject of intersexuality with intelligence and sensitivity .
throw down your heart Fleck speaks more with his fingers than in conversation , and the pure musician-to-musician communications joyfully cross language barriers and instrument differences . Musician Bela Fleck brings the banjo back to Africa , where it originated . Overall , the music is terrific and the film 's intentions are good . But less would have been more . It 's a journey long on affecting songs and musical passages , and short on scholarship -- and that works just fine for Fleck 's intentions . When Ms. Sangare sings a heartbreaking lament of `` a worried songbird '' searching for her father , you do n't need to know the language to be gripped by the force of her cry . If Fleck were n't such a gracious soul chasing the spirit of Sankofa , this could have been an exercise in exploitation of Graceland-ian proportions . But that 's hardly the case on his magical musical mystery tour . Fleck is an ideal protagonist for a film about the adhesive power of music and inadequacy of speech . Even as the plot sags and he grasps clumsily for words , his fingers on the strings are almost momentum enough . The film fails as a personal diary due to Fleck 's unflappable aloofness , and the performance footage is rendered unsatisfying by frequent interjections of expository material or cutaways to seaside B-roll that seems photographed for tourist brochures . Fleck comes across as respectfully curious and eagerly collaborative while exploring the roots of his favorite musical instrument . Fans of world music will enjoy the vibrant and spontaneous performances gathered here . Unbegrudgingly hands itself over to the music of its chosen subjects . 	Throw Down Your Heart is an exuberant musical journey with an edge of sadness .
eastern promises The kind of dark , disturbing and deeply fascinating work that jolts you while you are watching it unfold and continues to insinuate itself into your mind long after the end credits have rolled . As steeped in Russian flavors as a hot samovar , this fast , compelling story is also oddly Dickensian in its shadowy corners and twists . I 've said it before and hope to again : David Cronenberg is the most provocative , original , and consistently excellent North American director of his generation . A thriller can lead us into the fascinating intricacy of a criminal subculture , and Eastern Promises does that with the globalized Russian Mob . Offers mostly empty promises . Eastern Promises is a pretty hollow viewing experience . It deals with the ugly life choices facing Eastern immigrants in the West ( London ) but seems more contrived than truthful . It 's a raw film with a few problems ( one being that you do n't care for Anna as much as you care about the gangsters ) . It 's cool , but disturbing ... and worth a look . ... a powerful , well-done film that will not be to every taste . Exploring an array of themes ranging from love and betrayal to morality and mortality , Eastern Promises is a mesmerizing thriller designed for folks with a penchant for lingering depictions of utter depravity . Sheer brutality as cinematic beauty . Eastern Promises proves two things : First , director David Cronenberg knows how to end a movie better than just about anybody else in the business and , second , Viggo Mortensen is the greatest American actor that nobody in America cares about . 	David Cronenberg triumphs again , showcasing the Viggo Mortensen 's onscreen prowess in a daring performance . Bearing the trademarks of psychological drama and gritty violence , Eastern Promises is a very compelling crime story .
marmaduke Even by talking-critter comedy standards , Marmaduke lacks mirth and imagination . How bad is Marmaduke ? Let 's put it this way : Garfield , come home - all is forgiven . Remember when talking animals used to be funny ? Crammed with more recycled offal than a can of Alpo , Marmaduke exults in fart jokes , offensive stereotypes ( the cat , voiced by George Lopez , laps guacamole ) , and sloppy storytelling . Bad , bad dog . If Hollywood insists on cranking out movies about dogs that wo n't stop yapping at us , I hope they 'll all be as well-made as Marmaduke . This movie is one big dog . Brad Anderson 's long-running saga of the melty-looking Winslow family and the gangling , interfering Great Dane that should 've been put to sleep ages ago gets a film treatment . Previously , director Tom Dey made `` Failure to Launch '' and `` Showtime , '' the latter of which was one of the worst movies of 2002 . Congratulations Tom , you 've done it again in 2010 with `` Marmaduke . '' This threadbare film mostly feels like a way to keep out-of-school kids occupied during summertime . There is only so much fun you can have with a talking dog and Marmaduke quickly exhausts the possibilities . 	Dull and unfunny , Marmaduke offers family filmgoers little more than another round of talking animals and scatological humor .
eragon Stop me if you 've heard this one before ... Paolini was 15 when he began writing Eragon , and the book 's epic imagination reflects its creator 's precocious youth . What a shame a bunch of grownups had to step in and muck it all up . ... Lord of the Potter better captures the blended spirit of the occasion . Para una obra de ms de quinientas pginas , hay demasiada ligereza en la cinta ... The characters are full-on clichs spouting wooden lines , given no time to develop as the film races from one silly conflict to another . While it offers nothing new , it gets a passing grade because it does have some interesting characters , brought to life by some top-notch acting talent . Fears that Fangmeier 's debut would be the sequel to Dragonheart nobody wanted prove unwarranted . It 's the sequel to BloodRayne that nobody wanted . Essentially a repeat of the first episode of Star Wars dropped into a Lord of the Rings context ... comes across as plodding and rather dull . Its formula is so vanilla that it could be an early draft of almost any other science fiction or fantasy story . The only real difference between Eragon and one of those laughably chintzy movies produced for the Sci-Fi Channel is the cast . 	Written by a teenager ( and it shows ) , Eragon presents nothing new to the `` hero 's journey '' story archetype . In movie terms , this movie looks and sounds like Lord of the Rings and plays out like a bad Star Wars rip-off . The movie spins the tale of a peasant boy who is suddenly entrusted with a dragon and must , with the help of a mentor , train , grow strong , and defeat an evil emperor . The way the critics picture it , the makers of Eragon should soon be expecting an annoyed phone call from George Lucas .
lucky number slevin There are a few genuine surprises , but not enough to cover over the fact that the biggest reveal of all was plainly obvious in the first 10 minutes . Savor the surprises . The more you let the niggling questions go , the better Lucky Number Slevin gets . A gaseous movie experience gets a solid DVD treatment . With its diabolical ending , this is the movie equivalent of a crossword puzzle : fun , clever , and disposable . ... one ca n't help but wonder if the movie would 've worked better had some of the twists been revealed at the outset ... It 's self-consciously clever in a not-very-clever way , a puzzle only its creator finds puzzling . It 's fun to listen to , not to follow or watch . Despite the title of the movie he lives in , Slevin ( Josh Hartnett ) is only partly lucky . It 's a silly movie , but in a good way ... Not as clever as it thinks , a little too clever for its own good , it 's a fun ride , nonetheless . 	Trying too hard to be clever in a Pulp Fiction kind of way , this film succums to a convoluted plot , overly stylized characters and dizzying set design .
damned united People who have n't read the book will see a charming account of a man who will forever be a football legend , because he was witty and smart in a world dominated by money-grabbing dullards . Finds its riveting story in the locker-room and board-room wranglings of competitive team leaders , and dissects them with documentary-style precision . An incredibly entertaining 95 minutes spent in the company of one of the game 's most interesting characters , and a testament to the way in which friendship can save us in our darkest hour . Michael Sheen has built a film career playing real-life celebrities , political and otherwise . Here 's hoping he keeps it up . The performances by Michael Sheen and Timothy Spall give the picture the dramatic heft it needs to tackle a narrative far beyond the purview of a standard sports flick . Those who give it a whirl will discover a delightfully comic and sympathetic portrayal of British life in the hardscrabble , ciggies-and-lager '70s . The Damned United eliminates the existential anguish and pain that propelled Peace 's novel , and curtails its lowering style . Imagine an in-depth movie about a sequin factory in China that assumes we are already familiar with all of the details of sequin making , and you have an idea what it 's like to sit through The Damned United . The Damned United is really a tale of male camaraderie , sporting rivalry and the flawed nature of a man who many consider the greatest manager that England never had . Do you have to love soccer to love this movie ? No . You just have to love good acting . 	Better than your average football pic , Damned United is carried by another star turn from Michael Sheen as Brian Clough .
miss pettigrew lives for a day Miss Pettigrew Lives for a Day is a well-acted comedy with enough old-fashioned qualities to make it an enjoyable experience for long-standing audiences . The closest it comes to being interesting is when air raid sirens blare , bringing all the nonsense to a halt for a too-brief respite . But there are only so many air raids to go around . It sparkles mostly because of McDormand and her two main co-stars , Amy Adams and Shirley Henderson , a lesser-known actress from Scotland who just about steals the show . I adore Frances McDor mand , but she 's seri ously miscast -- in a title role Emma Thompson could play in her sleep -- in Miss Pettigrew Lives for a Day , an uneasy blend of screwball comedy and pathos set in 1939 London . more than the sum of its facile narrative parts . Adams can be a better actress than this , and the result is something like Who Framed Roger Rabbit ? -- Miss Pettigrew is a real person , and Delysia is a toon . After a slow and tiresome start , Miss Pettigrew forges ahead with true British fortitude and class , an endearing bond forming between McDormand and Adams , who are ably backed by a top-notch supporting cast led by Ciaran Hinds and Shirley Henderson . This delicious froth of an entertainment could have creaked all over the place and at times you feel it does , but Amy Adams is just magic , she lifts every role she takes on to absolutely delightful heights . A mixed bag of strengths and wekanesses , this adaptation of the 1930s Brit novel has charming moments but also cloying artificiality and is not as frothy and fun as it wants to be . ... the pronounced emphasis on the amorous escapades of both Miss Pettigrew and Delysia slowly but surely breathes some much needed life into an otherwise stale affair . 	Miss Pettigrew is a breezy period comedy carried by the strong performances of Amy Adams and Frances McDormand .
to be takei Conventional documentary or not , I got something of positive value and insight out of `` To Be Takei . '' A hilarious and heartfelt documentary by Jennifer M. Kroot that explores the strange magic that surrounds the icon , and how he 's used his fame to support his causes . William Shatner , it must be said , comes off as an insufferable , pompous jerk . The documentary To Be Takei serves to add considerable dimension to the man best known by many as Hikaru Sulu from Star Trek . While there 's pathos and tragedy here , there 's also good humor and human strength . [ Ms. Kroot 's ] banalizing documentary is self-defeating ... The doc works best as a relationship study , filled with endearing moments of intimate bickering . ... a charming look at a man whose charisma and optimism is infectious in his quest to live long and prosper . Another pleasant if disposable portrait . A unique blend of camp and conviction , `` To Be Takei '' deftly showcases George Takei 's eclectic personality and wildly disparate achievements , from `` Star Trek '' crewmate to gay-rights activist . 	To Be Takei rests almost entirely on its subject 's inherent likability -- and , for the most part , that 's more than enough .
lornas silence Lorna , the young Albanian immigrant at the center of Jean-Pierre and Luc Dardenne 's Lorna 's Silence , is both the newest addition to the twin auteurs ' gallery of spiritually anguished outsiders , and a subtle departure from it . The Silence Of Lorna is definitely a film worth shouting about . The always reliable Dardenne brothers , Jean-Pierre and Luc , the Belgian poets of the underclass , outdo themselves in Lorna 's Silence . The results are no less emotionally gratifying or personal than in [ the Dardennes ' ] previous films , but Lorna 's Silence is mysterious and mystifying in an entirely new way . As filmmakers , the Dardennes are more concerned with probing the causes of crime than in glamorizing it . Unclassifiable , accomplished and mysteriously enjoyable . An Albanian immigrant is forced into an impossible dilemma in a bleak Belgian drama relieved only by a strong performance from its leading lady . Everything else is pretty soul crushing . Mirthless and deliberately paced , there 's still enough in the well-acted Lorna 's Silence to make it worth listening to . Still , what initially promises to be a morality tale does n't really have any messages to speak of about immigration , womanhood , poverty , humanity or anything else for that matter . Heaven on earth for the Dardenne Bros. , the poets of European mercantile desolation . 	Subtle and emotionally bleak , this gripping thriller features the Dardenne brothers ' recognizable penchant for realism and very strong performances .
millions It 's hard not to get swept up by the buoyant charm and scrappy wit . What 's ( Danny Boyle ) doing making a sweet , sentimental kids ' movie ? Virtually reinventing another genre , of course . That the director of Trainspotting can make something as sweet , wonderful and nearly perfect as Millions , is reason enough to believe in miracles . A delightful kids movie done from a kid 's perspective that alternates between feeling like a fable and a pop-up book . Give Boyce and Boyle credit for daring to be strange , but this enchilada is so overstuffed , it 's falling apart . Captures the moment when every kid must break free from it and start to become part of the significantly darker and less fun adult world . Sprinkled with a heady dose of magic realism , this film is lovely . ... the intent was clearly to show Boyle 's softer side . And for much of this film , softer is brilliant . The movie , though quite funny in parts , turns organically dark , and it refuses to paint a picture of a cotton-candy world . It prefers the real one . Avoids sentimental kitsch and is vitally related to the movie 's low-key endorsement of faith , hope , and charity . 	A charming children fable even adults can enjoy .
real women have curves Given its winning story line and a terrific performance by newcomer America Ferrera in the lead , Real Women Have Curves could become the next My Big Fat Greek Wedding . Cardoso breathes new life into a familiar premise with this charming and sensitive crowd pleaser . Funny and touching . It 's so underwritten that you ca n't figure out just where the other characters , including Ana 's father and grandfather , come down on the issue of Ana 's future . This strong little independent film packs more colour and life into its trim 86 minutes than many puffed-up blockbusters can stuff into two hours . Expect no major discoveries , nor any stylish sizzle , but the film sits with square conviction and touching good sense on the experience of its women . The film has an across-the-board , My Big Fat Greek Wedding-style appeal . What 's most refreshing about Real Women Have Curves is its unforced comedy-drama and its relaxed , natural-seeming actors . A quaint piece of guilt-assuaging , poorly scripted after-school special 'infotainment ' elevated by the star-making presence of young America Ferrera . They do a good job of painting this family dynamic for the audience but they tried to squeeze too many elements into the film . 	Even though Real Women is another coming-of-age tale , it 's a real charmer .
1155109-hoodwinked The production contains enough positive elements to make it worth a look , but not until it reaches DVD or TV . As a theatrical offering , it disappoints . At least Hoodwinked is fun to look at when nondescript musical numbers or uninspiring characters fail to please . A very rare example of a non-Pixar/Aardman kiddie pic that adults might enjoy more than the youngsters . Hoodwinked is a delicious little basket of goodies , from its quick-witted humor to its colorful animation . Simply not worth the effort or expense of a family night out at the movies . A cartoon more for adults with a sense of humor , than for children . The Edwards show immense creative potential ; they just did n't find it all in this particular forest . This animated tale about 'what really happened ' among the Wolf , Grandma , Red and the Woodsman does n't excel in any department , from unspectacular computer animation to routine voice talent . I would have loved to see what Pixar could have done with the material . Hoodwinked ! may sound like a good idea , but if you go to see it , you may leave feeling snookered . 	This fractured fairytale does n't have the wit or animation quality to compete with the likes of the Shrek franchise .
sound of music One of the most enduring , feel-good musicals ever made , with sing-along songs made for the entire family . No christmas day would be complete without spending the afternoon falling asleep in front of this film . Other than The Wizard of Oz , no Hollywood musical is as familiar , reassuring , and beloved of all ages ... Andrews anchors the film ... her sincerity is absolute . Check your cynicism at the door : Robert Wise 's adaptation of the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical still has a little soul in its bones . Every audience sniffle and tear has been taken into account . This is one of my 'favorite things ' . Don your white dress with blue satin sash or a pair of cool lederhosen , practice your scales , and sing along . The Sound of Music ( 1965 ) was an exceptionally successful film in the mid-1960s - at the time of its release , it surpassed Gone With the Wind as the number one This artful crowd-pleaser continues to reach out to every generation , thanks to expert and unsentimental handling from director Robert Wise and a magnificent performance from Julie Andrews . Arguably the best screen adaptation of a stage musical that has yet been made , and certainly the most improved over its source material . A warmly pulsating , captivating drama . 	Unapologetically sweet and maybe even a little corny , The Sound of Music will win over all but the most cynical filmgoers with its classic songs and irresistible warmth .
godfather part ii Both a sequel and more than an equal to one of the greatest films of all time . This film has an even broader scope than the original , but does not fail in its depiction of small , intimate moments and surprising emotional reveals . Either taken alone or together with the original , The Godfather Part II is an astounding work . While I 'm sure profits were a big part of the conversation the Paramount suits had when deciding to green-light The Godfather Part II , but Coppola did n't go out and bastardize the franchise . Far from it . It goes much deeper than The Godfather in analyzing the twisted mentalities of these men who pervert the capitalist system for their own gain . The film is richer in texture and gives more evidence of social awareness . Not once does Pacino overtly ask for the audience 's sympathy , but through a disciplined , suggestive performance he dominates the film . This is quite simply one of the saddest movies ever made , a tale of loss , grief and absolute loneliness , an unflinching stare into the darkest moral abyss . Could this somehow be even better than `` The Godfather '' ? Decide for yourself while I go watch both movies . Quite possibly the best sequel ever . EVER . A rare sequel that is even better than the original 1972 The Godfather , largely due to the superb performances by De Niro ( as the young Brando character ) , Pacino , who here assumes the lead , and the rest of the ensemble . 	Drawing on strong performances by Al Pacino and Robert De Niro , Francis Ford Coppola 's continuation of Mario Puzo 's Mafia saga set new standards for sequels that have yet to be matched or broken .
captain phillips Squeezing every drop of tension from wet-ink recent history , Phillips only falters when making its protagonists mouthpieces in a broader geopolitical debate . Otherwise , it 's full steam ahead to the Oscars . Tom Hanks , just the right nuanced actor for the role , delivers an Oscar worthy performance . Combining the sustained tension of Bourne with the human heart of United 93 , Greengrass makes Captain Phillips well worth following through the wringer . Director Paul Greengrass and screenwriter Billy Ray have a much broader focus than one man 's heroism . In addition to being an action-adventure about captors and hostages , Captain Phillips is a tragedy about the ruinous consequences of global capitalism . Yet another Greengrass masterpiece . And it reveals why there have been so many : Behind the director 's dispassionate , unfailingly rigorous lens lies an enormous , unfailingly compassionate heart . Although Captain Phillips is primarily a rousing thriller , it succeeds most when it adds an undercurrent of discomfort . It 's a good , often thoughtful film boasting a compassionate performance from Tom Hanks and a breakout one from Abdi , but despite its tense real life events , `` Captain Phillips ' '' impact is late breaking . It 's a sweaty-palmed , relentless thriller - and a damned good one . An enthralling and beautifully made action-drama driven by an absorbing lead performance from Tom Hanks ... 	Smart , powerfully acted , and incredibly intense , Captain Phillips offers filmgoers a Hollywood biopic done right -- and offers Tom Hanks a showcase for yet another brilliant performance .
pirates of the caribbean 3 If number two was a scorned middle child fighting for attention , then Pirates 3 is a perpetual motion machine ; not just because it is on autopilot , but also because it seems like it will never end . Depp 's drugged-like Captain Jack persona wears goofy-thin , and the sword fight sequences clank on and on . Oh , thank the gods . Thank crazy Walt Disney 's head in a cryogenic freezer ... . [ This ] lowest-common-denominator junk cinema [ is ] the most cheesalicious , escape-a-riffic it could be . At World 's End is too long , too confusing , too cluttered , too much . It 's also great cinema . At World 's End , shows that Hollywood excess , when combined with the right combination of actors and an occasionally smart script , can work out quite nicely , thank you very much . After the film 's final act at Shipwreck Cove , one does feel a sense of satisfaction with the Pirates series , the glow of a rum punch and an ocean sunset . It 's really not all that hard to follow the complicated story 's basic outline ; but it just becomes wearying . while it maintains some vestiges of daring , I fear that the filmmakers may have bought too deeply into their own delusions of grandeur If Dead Mans Chest was inspiration gone amok , At Worlds End is more much , much , much more of the same , only without the inspiration . Suficientemente divertido e absolutamente irrepreensvel em suas timas seqncias de ao . 	POTC : AWE provides the thrilling action scenes , but mixes in too many characters with too many incomprehensible plot threads .
aristocrats Laughs of discomfort or of the 'ewwww gross ' variety are not really the same as good hearty laughs . You 'll need a shower afterwards . Like the joke , the filmmakers keep their movie alive , not by changing any of the fundamentals but by finding new ways to embroider the basic material . Interesting and informative . The film 's real value is as a look at comedy and creativity . So this man walks into this talent agent 's office ... wait a minute . I ca n't even begin to think about telling The Joke . There 's no denying the power of the joke , or the equal parts delight and embarrassment The Aristocrats provokes . The funniest dirty joke you 'll ever hear . Mesmo que repetitivo ao procurar analisar o significado social da graa da piada e contendo algumas performances terrivelmente medocres , o filme ganha um flego invejvel sempre que algum comediante inspirado surge em cena . A serious examination of the funny bone that 's pretty uproarious in its own right . An intentionally one-joke film , The Aristocrats ca n't help but be repetitive , and its endless muck and perversions can wear on a viewer . 	Can a joke stand up to repeated tellings ? Hilarious and revealing of the way comedy works , The Aristocrats demonstrates that it 's possible .
osmosis jones This is the kind of premise you 'd expect to be filmed as a five-minute educational video , if at all . But this feature is 95 minutes and never drags . The jokes are about as fresh as moldy bread run over by a dump truck . A witty hybrid of animation and live action . It has zippy energy , visual imagination , inspired puns and all the fart jokes , booger gags , and vomit spews a 13-year-old could ask for ... I 'd advise attendees of this film to go on an empty stomach , but if you 're willing to endure the Farrellys ' warped sense of humor and Murray 's scratching , squirting , gas-passing antics , Osmosis Jones offers some lighthearted fun . The animated sequences in Osmosis Jones are funny and clever and thoroughly entertaining , with plenty of lively imagination on display in the transposition of a 1970s cop movie to the inner workings of the human body . Has more ambition and imagination than can be comfortably contained in its brief 83 minutes . never quite takes off the way you 're hoping it will A herky-jerky hodgepodge of sporadically inspired animation and relentlessly unfunny live-action filler . Osmosis Jones , with its effluvia-festival brand of humor , is often fun , and the rounded , blobby rendering of the characters is likable . 	The animated portion of Osmosis is zippy and fun , but the live-action portion is lethargic .
waltz with bashir Definite must-see if you think you can handle it . Visually inventive and viscerally sincere , `` Waltz With Bashir '' is a cathartic and unforgettable film . Israeli writer-director Ari Folman 's powerful , innovative film is composed largely of nightmares , all but the final one rendered in graphic-novel style . a frothing pop nightmare it feels like a fever dream , but moves forward with the churning internal logic and dogged persistence of a mystery-thriller Waltz With Bashir is a strange and wonderful hybrid . The power of the film is the cartoon `` shield '' between the witness and the audience . It has the unsettling effect of intensifying the trauma . The animation serves as a distancing device akin to the way that Folman 's mind used concealment to shield him from horrific traumas , a canny marriage of thematic and aesthetic concerns that nonetheless ca n't cover up the unsubtle redundancy of his story . Folman uses striking , fluid , tactile imagery to illustrate the elastic nature of memory , ranging from snow and water to the feel of a tank navigating a city 's narrow streets to more surreal , dreamlike images . Astonishing , unforgettable : you have to see it . 	A wholly innovative , original , and vital history lesson , with pioneering animation , Waltz With Bashir delivers its message about the Middle East in a mesmerizing fashion .
club-dread If the group strikes gold at the box office with its new picture , Broken Lizard 's Club Dread , it will be more for the seemingly surefire combination of extreme violence and extreme raunch rather than for anything resembling comic inspiration . One of the better horror parodies , which if you ask me has been done to death . If you hate Jimmy Buffett , you 'll love Bill Paxton 's Coconut Pete . If you like naked girls who happen to be gymnasts , you 'll love Jordan Ladd . This is a FUN flick ! Outrageous comedy is n't meant to be this safe . Broken Lizard 's Club Dread spoofs a genre already spoofed out , the slasher film , and does it badly There 's the inevitable hit-and-miss aspect that goes with the territory , but there 's also sufficient character-driven kookiness to propel it all agreeably along . Like the guests who party hardy on Pleasure Island -- a Caribbean resort lorded over by a brain-fried Jimmy Buffett-type -- the writers must have been too blotto to bother with , like , jokes . There 's a problem with spoofs of crappy horror comedy flicks : in order to get to the spoof comedy , the audience still has to wade through the crappy horror flick . Will appeal to everyone who enjoys the shenanigans of movies like Army of Darkness , Tommy Boy , or even the Scary Movie series . It 's not horrible -- which for these guys is a real step up , though not enough of one . 	Comedy is too hit-or-miss is this slasher spoof .
side effects 2013 Even if you 're a young guy with no interest in the prescription drug scene , you 'll be attentive to the melodramatic aspects of this psychological thriller . Plot twists ? Or lurches between genres ? One moment , we 're watching an enthralling expos of the modern pharmaceutical industry ; the next we 're reeling from some well-timed mystery-thriller shocks . And Soderbergh , aided by a sharp script and superb cast , wrong-foots us all the way . It starts out as one type of film and ends up as another , and manages the transition seamlessly . As the twists piled on , I found them increasingly strained and eventually alienating . A ludicrous thriller disguised as a sociopolitical statement on the US pharmaceutical industry . A nicely nasty thriller -- and the less you know before seeing it , the more you 'll enjoy it . In his purported farewell to big screen directing , Steven Soderbergh has delivered a salute to some film masters that 's also pretty darn fun A story that plays subtle tricks with our moral allegiances . The instability bleeds into the fabric of the film itself , and until the very end , it is thrillingly hard to prise open its puzzle-box lid . 	A smart , clever thriller with plenty of disquieting twists , Side Effects is yet another assured effort from director Steven Soderbergh .
fish called wanda Sweet , and almost as much fun as Fierce Creatures . Kevin Kline won the Supporting Actor Oscar for this funny and enjoyable farce , based on original script by John Cleese and Charles Crichton Somehow , the movie manages to do the impossible : It makes John Cleese less than hilarious . One of the greatest comedies of all time . Like many of the best English comedies , much of the humor here is based on character , good-natured high spirits , and fairly uninhibited vulgarity . It 'll keep you amused enough to sit still and even remember it fondly . But it seems a light day 's fishing for Messers Cleese and Palin . A Fish Called Wanda is at its most electric when it pits Cleese and Kline against each other . A surprisingly stylish comedy from 1988 -- an era not known for stylish comedies . Perhaps the most unusual aspect of what is surely the year 's most original and daring comedy is that John Cleese is not the funniest performer in it . Believe it or not , that honor goes to none other than the usually somber Kevin Kline . It 's a deliciously dishy comedy , but like sushi an acquired taste . 	Smartly written , smoothly directed , and solidly cast , A Fish Called Wanda offers a classic example of a brainy comedy with widespread appeal .
slither Just when it seemed like the zombie cannibal/parasite from outer space horror comedy had pretty much run its course , along comes Slither , a particularly lively addition to the remarkably durable undead genre . ... More comedy than horror , though on some level it is a satisfying entry in both genres . Writer/director James Gunn knows the genre inside and out , so he wonderfully uses bad dialogue , cheesy special effects and a crazy plot to share the laugh with us Slither is a labor of love made by a horror aficionado who knows just when to tweak the tropes . Slither is an enjoyable stab at spoofing the genre , but it wo n't send you away feeling completely slimed , which in this context is another word for satisfied . Gunn respects not only the genre but the audience ; he grounds both the jokes and the shocks in his characters and situations , making this the most satisfying studio release since 'The Ice Harvest . ' Slither is a monster movie with a wry smile on its face , where ( thankfully ) the gruesome effects , rather than the humour , tend towards full on gross out . There 's enough material in that scene for a whole conference of psychologists , but I could n't stop to figure it all out . I was too busy laughing . Hey , remember `` Tremors ? '' If you do , and you smile at the thought of this comic horror flick , then wriggle on out to `` Slither , '' an adults-only gorefest for those of us with a sense of humor about our flesh-eating zombies . Slither is a movie only true horror buffs can love . Its greatest strength is that it never aspires to be anything more than it is : 96 minutes of good laughs and retro-splatter . 	A slimy , B-movie homage oozing with affection for low-budget horror films , Slither is creepy and funny -- if you 've got the stomach for it .
a most violent year Chandor 's moody , muscular film finds 'the most right path ' to the fewest clichs . It 's really just sort of ... dumb . It 's quite good , for what it is . But it 's that `` for what it is '' part that proves slightly exasperating . All this is rendered ... in memorable and exemplary fashion . And it 's all just a little more boring than it ought to be . Like the films made by Sidney Lumet in the same gritty urban locale , it quickly heats up to a simmer and generates considerable tension in exploring the darker byways of the drive for success in America . If you go expecting the usual gangster flick violence , you might come out feeling short-changed but , if you let the film get to you , this is an absorbing contribution to a central American obsession . If this is the weakest of Chandor 's three films , it 's only because he made such a mark with the first two . A tremendously powerful performance at its center from an incredibly talented actor truly brings A Most Violent Year alive , and makes it a film to remember . A tough , gritty , richly atmospheric thriller ... `` A Most Violent Year '' is a special film , buoyed mostly by a pair of standout lead performances , both strongly against type . 	Gritty , gripping , and weighted with thought-provoking heft , A Most Violent Year represents another strong entry in writer-director J.C. Chandor 's impressive filmography .
explorers Hardly out of this world , but a pleasing spinkle of space dust Their space trip may be familiar , but they make it fun . Without an interesting story or characters , special effects are n't enough to sustain a feature film . It looks terrific , moves along at a gallop , and is marvellously good-natured . A family feature on Acid . What a strange , strange film . The movie 's pleasures are obvious and considerable . The birth of fanboy culture ? An enjoyable , quintessentially 1980s science-fiction adventure , full of wit and crafty pop culture references . Explorers itself is bubble-thin , but it glides by gracefully on the charm of its three young heroes and their vividly envisioned adventure in space . A fun-time nostalgic trip into outer space . 	With a terrific young cast ( including Ethan Hawke and River Phoenix ) and some typically energetic work from director Joe Dante , Explorers soars past its '80s kiddie flick competitors with wit , good-looking effects , and tons of charm .
trading places Eddie Murphy stars in one of his greatest roles . Enjoyable star comedy with pleasant performances . Because Eddie does n't have to carry the whole movie , he is free to make every word that comes out of his mouth infinitely appealing . As a satire on the internecine savagery of fiscal doings under late Reaganite capitalism , the movie is not as biting as it thinks it is ; but it 's still the best hoot since Arthur . Preposterous lighthearted one-joke comedy . Murphy and Akyroyd are two comedians in their prime . A thoroughly entertaining romp with its lampooning of social snobbery ... a fun-filled film all the way around . Directed by John Landis with a surprising amount of class , though he lets some of his old Animal House ' vulgarity slip ostentatiously into the action . Trading Places also makes Eddie Murphy a force to be reckoned with . 	Featuring deft interplay between Eddie Murphy and Dan Aykroyd , Trading Places is an immensely appealing social satire .
polar express the heart of the material remains uncorrupted . ... But the true genius of the filmmakers ' achievement is best appreciated in the 3-D IMAX translation of the movie ... The film 's tone alternates awkwardly between slightly haunted , bittersweet nostalgia for childhood innocence and an aggressive , antic cheer that smacks of trying much too hard to convince everyone they 're having fun . As a spectacle , The Polar Express looks remarkable . As a film , however , it 's the equivalent of an elaborately wrapped Christmas present containing a nice new pair of socks . A delightful tale guaranteed to enthrall viewers of all ages . Many will hail this as a classic , but a better bet for seasonal cheer would be a screening of Santa Claus Conquers the Martians under the influence of spiked eggnog . Everything is so nearly real , down to the characters ' hair fluttering in the icy wind , that it 's uneasily surreal , the way that clowns scare tots more than they amuse them . Artwork is beautiful , there are some good songs , but the characters lack expressiveness . Hanks pours it on with a heart-wrenching , tear-inducing , 4-boxes-of-tissues final narration that made the toughest and most cynical of audience members weep ( I 'm only human ) . The Polar Express is like the coolest train set a kid ever had . ... the IMAX Corporation would do well to have this available every year in 3D . They have finally come upon their staple film . 	Though the movie is visually stunning overall , the animation for the human characters is n't lifelike enough , and the story is padded .
bullitt Even though the story almost makes no sense and the Oscar-winning editing has several illogical cuts , Bullitt is an exquisitely satisfying motion picture , particularly if there is still an adolescent boy lodged somewhere in your psyche . It 's more than just that great car chase . The whole film is gritty , down-to-earth and enjoyable . If more attention had been paid to plot and characterisation , this would have been a great rather than a good movie . Even so , it stands as a cinematic landmark . Menos focado na trama e mais nos procedimentos de seu protagonista , Bullitt busca o realismo constantemente , criando um personagem no apenas crvel , mas complexo . McQueen is great in Bullitt , and the movie is great , because director Peter Yates understands the McQueen image and works within it . He winds up with about the best action movie of recent years . For all of the talk about its legendary car chase through the streets of San Francisco -- and it is justified -- Bullitt idles far tool long in the slow lane when it should be blowing by the minivans and the carpoolers . Apart from the car chase , the gritty , realistic take on police work makes this thriller classic . A low key , tough guy cop thriller , Bullitt does not go over the top with its action sequences and stays away from the usual cop movie clichs , lifting the bar in regards to how cop movies should be made . One of the cinema 's very best car-chase sequences -- set amid the hilly , windy San Francisco streets -- caps this quintessential Steve McQueen policier . Surprisingly austere and very much of its time , Bullitt is a lot less fun and a lot more impressive than you might expect . 	Steve McQueen is cool as ice in this thrilling police procedural that also happens to contain the arguably greatest car chase ever .
the dark knight rises The most thrilling and satisfying spectacle this summer , Nolan 's third and final chapter of the blockbuster saga is the kind of movie that gives mainstream Hollywood a good name . Speaking lines they can not possibly understand , not one actor makes any attempt to be believable . So manufactured and synthetic that they eventually lose all sense of reality , they 're like reconstituted orange juice and processed cheese . Nolan exits the trilogy triumphant ; it 's just that , in some ways , he pales in comparison to himself . Epic and exhilarating in its ambition and execution , Christopher Nolan delivers another landmark in comic book cinema and also a wholly satisfying end note for fans . If Nolan has accomplished nothing else here , he has made one of the more human movies of this type . ... Nolan thinks small in a big way ... providing an imperfect yet satisfying conclusion , and that in itself is quite an accomplishment . As befits the saga 's engagement with the economics of Gotham City , a great deal of topical material floats about here , insufficiently digested . This is the problem when you 're an exceptional , visionary filmmaker . When you give people something extraordinary , they expect it every time . Anything short of that feels like a letdown . The Dark Knight Rises wraps in satisfying fashion , even if it may take a little while to fully grab you . While acknowledging its flaws intellectually , I was still emotionally thrilled . 	The Dark Knight Rises is an ambitious , thoughtful , and potent action film that concludes Christopher Nolan 's franchise in spectacular fashion .
1000617-aliens Truly great cinema . One sequel that surpasses the original . If you were to only see one movie in your entire lifetime it would have to be ALIENS . James Cameron has delivered a masterpiece that will never in a million years be topped ... How can I put into worlds the terrifying atmosphere , the in-your-face violence or the nerve-wrenching suspense of the film ? If only all blockbusters were this good . Un film cl en son genre . The result is a film that not only answers many questions raised by the original story , but also expands production values , amplifies special effects and weaves a new plot that is even more exciting than the first . Other than being overlong , this film is damn near perfect . Another defining picture in the sci-fi genre . A stellar achievement that 's almost as good as the original . It 's actually scary to think about what the movie landscape would look like had Aliens not been the critical and commercial success that it was . 	While Alien was a marvel of slow-building , atmospheric tension , Aliens packs a much more visceral punch , and features a typically strong performance from Sigourney Weaver .
balls of fury Christopher Walken does not actually show up in Asian drag until halfway through Balls of Fury -- not enough to salvage this mostly unfunny , extremely silly pingpong comedy . A horrendously written and acted movie which even Walken ca n't save . It 's like a 'Saturday Night Live ' skit stretched out to a cheesy , mind-numbing 90 minutes . A daft , disappointing comedy . The shtick grows a bit repetitive , so by the end of the story you may be checking the time rather than rooting for Randy . Imagine if Chris Farley had been a Gremlin ... the good , cute gremlin . Fogler would be what happened after you poured water on him and fed him KFC after midnight . Try as he might , Director Garant can not bring a winning performance out of this summertime silliness . Ping pong remains in disfavor as of the dog days of August . Could a movie that mixes table tennis , spies and kung-fu action star anyone else but Christopher Walken ? Probably not . Insistently ludicrous . Taking no risks at all while avoiding anything too offensive , Balls of Fury has neither balls nor fury . 	Tasteless , yet harmless , Balls of Fury nevertheless fails to generate enough laughs despite its lowbrow intentions .
the-one With a plot constructed more like a video game than a drama , there 's hardly any room for character development . The action is fun and ultraviolent , the story is satisfactorily ridiculous and the acting is nonexistent . Although Li is a pleasure to watch and a few scenes stand out , it 's disappointing to see him watered down with cheap spectacle . You should know you 're in trouble when you steal ideas from Highlander . While the general public may not expect much from a Jet Li film , you might think a movie created by Glen Morgan and James Wong ( X-Files and Final Destination ) would be a little less lame . Now here 's something you do n't see everyday : a movie title that matches the number of stars most critics are going to give to it . Fans of Li 's Hong Kong films may just be embarrassed ; how can you mount a defense for an actor this bad in two roles ? A dimwitted parallel-universe slugfest that sets a new low for a Hollywood martial arts extravaganza built around a major star . We watch good Jet battle evil Jet ... and the difference between the characters boils down to ... blank and slightly less blank . If popcorn-picture auteur John Carpenter made martial arts flicks , they 'd be just like `` The One '' -- an unabashedly cheesy , B-grade sci-fi amusement park ride . 	The One plays out more like a video game than a movie and borrows freely from other , better sci-fi actioners like the The Matrix . Also , Jet Li 's martial arts abilities are buried under the editing and special effects .
curse of the golden flower Beautifully designed , visually stunning epic with impressive battle sequences , although the soap-tastic plot takes a while to really get going . This is epic , super-duper-sized . . . a hollow but lovely looking spectacle . Though the film lacks the breathtaking sweep of his magnificent Hero or the lyrical intimacy of House of Flying Daggers , Curse remains worth seeing . ( A lesser Zhang film is still superior to the best of other directors . ) ... A spectacle for the eyes and for the soul . It 's less soap opera than grand opera , where matters of love and death are played at a perfect fever pitch . And grand this Golden Flower is . Eye-popping . One of the year 's most spectacularly visual treats . It has wide-screen images that are beyond astounding . Make no mistake , all is epic , violent , bloody madness once the director hits his stride , and fans of Zhang 's work will not want to miss Curse of the Golden Flower . But brush strokes are amiss here . It is an overwrought melodrama set on a background of impressive beauty.This is a beautiful film , but the characters are weak and disappointing from Zhang . The Chinese director Zhang Yimou achieves a kind of operatic delirium , opening the floodgates of image and melodrama until the line between tragedy and black comedy is all but erased . Curse of the Golden Flower is a triumph of set dressing , cinematography and costuming . Now if only it were compelling . 	Melodrama , swordplay , and CG armies -- fans of martial arts epic will get what they bargain for , though the baroque art direction can be both mesmerizing and exhaustively excessive .
dear john ... director Lasse Hallstrom employs an impressively artful sensibility that separates the film from its typically superficial and glossy teenage-romance brethren ... Despite its flaws , this is a wonderfully filmed romance that will have even the toughest of guys dabbing away the tears . Suds maven Sparks sets up Seyfried for hottie sainthood as a southern belle who confuses love with a medical pity party , while coin collecting is diagnosed as autism and Tatum as Ahab pursues his Afghan white whale . Blame it on Osama . This is a muzzy picture through and through , from Hallstrm 's softy direction and Jamie Linden 's humorless script and slurry plotting to Tatum 's portrayal of John . When movie mechanics wedge into their romance , we check out . But there 's enough love in this love story to make us feel for a son and his father and their attempts to connect Dear John is nothing to write home about . Ultimately as welcome as a letter bearing that introduction John and Savannah act like characters in a novel , doing things not because this is what actual human beings would do but because the plot needs further complications . On the grand scale of convincing romantic melodramas , `` Dear John '' falls somewhere between `` Antichrist '' and `` From Paris With Love . '' The Notebook , this ai n't . Dear John starts off promisingly , then falls to pieces by the second act , devolving into saccharine tear-jerking schmaltz . 	Built from many of the same ingredients as other Nicholas Sparks tearjerkers , Dear John suffers from its cliched framework , as well as Lasse Hallstrom 's curiously detached directing .
1016213-peter pan A cavalcade of classic songs , unforgettable moments , gorgeous handcrafted animation and , unfortunately , some racial stereotypes . I have to give a special shout-out to Tinkerbell , a Disney creation that I never fully appreciated as a child . I would argue that Peter Pan is a movie with great characters , but it is not itself a great movie . A feature cartoon of enchanting quality . The boomers love it ; they can have it . Years later it 's still a treasure , because of Disney and his artists ' talent for creating memorable characters . Stereotypes mar otherwise jaunty Disney adventure . Ornamented with some bright and lilting tunes , it is a lively feature-length Technicolor excursion into a world that glows with an exhilarating charm and a gentle joyousness . Perhaps Disney 's most underrated work . Peter Pan may be a boy who refuses to grow up , but his movie is really one of Disney 's most adult `` kids ' '' films . 	Though it does n't delve deeply into the darkness of J.M . Barrie 's tale , Peter Pan is a heartwarming , exuberant film with some great tunes .
mulan Mulan is the latest Disney goldmine to hit thousands of screens and millions of Happy Meals . A beautifully spun tale of honor , revenge and cross-dressing . Cross-dressing ? In the end , Mulan is n't bad - it 's just mediocre , which is particularly disappointing given its Disney pedigree . A wondrously created animated film with some of the greatest nuanced animation I 've ever seen ... The Disney studios has its formula for annual , full-length animated features down so pat that it 's hard to remember which one you 're watching at any given moment . This is the best Disney animated feature , ever ( involving extensive use of cross-dressing ) . Almost triumph ( s ) over the old-fashioned forces of Disney tradition . Overall , this is a lovely film , ranking with the best of Disney 's animated features while taking on rather serious issues of war , honor , gender roles and family pride . A telling testimonial for this film is my 6-year-old 's first exuberant utterance as the credits began rolling : 'Can we get the video ? ' Mulan is artful and satisfying in a slightly remote way . 	Exploring themes of family duty and honor , Mulan breaks new ground as a Disney film , while still bringing vibrant animation and sprightly characters to the screen .
amy 2015 Moving , sobering and heartbreaking , providing us with a non-judgemental film about a young woman who endured more than her fair share of judgement . This is a warts and all movie that is shocking and sad , even if you know the story , a film you will remember long after others have faded . It is clear that Kapadia adores her , and wishes to honour her story by telling it without flinching . One of the central tragedies dissected in Amy is that Winehouse loved two vile , reprehensible men -- her father and her husband -- to such a degree that she allowed them to continually use her and abuse her . `` Amy '' does n't depart from the standard behind-the-music template , but it does deepen the format immeasurably , through the intimacy of its archival materials and the focus of its approach . Amy firmly reiterates that `` celebrities '' are no different from the rest of us . Fame and fortune does n't exempt you from the effects of addiction and depression . Even if the last third of Amy is painful to watch , Kapadia takes care not to lose sight of the human being behind the mythology . Kapadia 's illuminating , compassionate and tragic doc goes way up and way , way down with the gone-too-soon Amy Winehouse . A tribute and less an expos-although it is that , too ... One of the few who comes off well here is Tony Bennett , ever a gentleman . Amy may not be the definitive version of Amy Winehouse 's life , but it feels like it is . In documentary , that 's what counts . 	As riveting as it is sad , Amy is a powerfully honest look at the twisted relationship between art and celebrity -- and the lethal spiral of addiction .
rocketeer Energetic , but the script is routine . This is a wonderful tying together of historic detail in the story of a man who becomes a super-hero with the help of a rocket pack . You have to dial down , to return to an age of innocence when an eccentric inventor and a clear-eyed hero could take on the bad guys with a new gizmo they 'd dreamed up overnight . A film with its heart in the right place and it is a lot of fun . A fun outing , harkening back to the old serial days . Dalton is appropriately hammy as the Errol Flynn-type villain . More Deco-era style than substance -- but fun . Based on a comic book , deliciously corny but not campy , `` The Rocketeer '' is the movie Dick Tracy and Batman wanted to be . Wonderful comic book movie . A hell of a lot of fun ... lots of energy , spirit and adventure ! The Rocketeer may not be perfect , but it 's an excellent example of how to adapt a comic book to the screen . 	An action-packed , if anachronistic , look back at pulp matinee serials , The Rocketeer may ring hollow with viewers expecting more than simple fun and gee-whiz special effects .
awake For what it 's worth : The best Jessica Alba movie of the year ! The filmmakers of Awake have crafted a domestic thriller that just may end up putting you ASLEEP . Harold sustains an unsettling tone and the graphic depiction of what goes on under the knife is , well , a surgery-phobic patient 's worst nightmare Will he wake up ? Will he die ? Will his voice-over ever stop ? Will the pain , the infernal pain , of this insufferable film ever end ? All is revealed within 78 minutes , but it 's doubtful you 'll be awake . The plot has more holes in it than a tea bag and the film should come with a warning label : do n't go see with anyone with even a modicum of medical knowledge , because they 'll surely spend the film huffing and rolling their eyes skyward . It 's not a great movie by any means , but as a throwaway thriller with a terrific mid-movie twist , it 's not bad way to spend 84 minutes . much better than i expected Sex , Lies and Surgical Tape meets I Saw Mommy Killing Santa Claus ! You 'll laugh out loud when you see the operating room , which looks like something out of an early Woody Allen comedy . Silly , but fans of Christensen and Alba should be pleased . 	Awake has an interesting premise but would have benefited from tighter performances and more efficient direction and editing .
pans labyrinth If Tim Burton and Jan Svankmejer had teamed up to make The Chronicles of Narnia , the result probably would have looked something like this picture . It sinks deep into your soul and surprises you with its bravery and warmth . As harsh as it is human , filmmaking does n't get any more enlightened than this . With strong performances by much of the cast , particularly the young Baquero , and almost-seamless special effects , the praise is well earned . An imaginary garden with real toads . A fairy tale without the Disneyfication Pan 's Labyrinth plays with dark magic , a hideous enchantment spun with grief and torment . It is emotionally devastating and sensuously rich : Details are as sharp as the ching of a straight-edge razor , as strange as the squeal of a magic root . An uneasy mix of childlike , Tim Burton-esque imagination and brutal Spanish war-torn drama . It 's both blissfully nave and emotionally heartbreaking , a movie which calls on fantasy not to distort reality , but to enhance it . Ofelia , you break our hearts . But you also restore our confidence in human decency . Whole worlds open before our eyes and then fold back upon themselves ; dimensions of time and space are creased into shape as if the movie was an elaborate origami creation . 	Pan 's Labyrinth is Alice in Wonderland for grown-ups , with the horrors of both reality and fantasy blended together into an extraordinary , spellbinding fable .
the imposter 2012 One of the year 's most provocative pictures . In the annals of forged identity flicks , this is a towering Everest , dwarfing the deceivers in the likes of Catch Me If You Can and F for Fake . The Imposter frequently sends your jaw hurtling to the floor as it tries to understand the great pretender and a family only too willing to accept him as one of their own . This story in itself would be enough , but , like any good modern documentary , The Imposter has more twists and turns to reveal . The film looks like many a television crime series , and is as manipulative . With no disclaimer or separation , its method screams that this is full honest fact . If only the movie did n't almost glamorise Bourdin 's action , they 'd have been onto a real masterpiece . British director Bart Layton has only slightly fictionalised this extraordinary story for his documentary , which is told more as a thriller than a statement of hard fact . Sporting a sly grin that 's just this side of sinister , Bourdin makes a riveting subject , not least because he could still be an unreliable narrator . `` The Imposter '' is one of the best films of the year . The story told in this crime thriller of a documentary is so bizarre it 's hard to believe it 's true . But it is . A perfect example of stranger than fiction ! 	Despite its true-crime trappings , The Imposter is an utterly gripping and sometimes heartbreaking documentary thriller cleverly told with narrative flair .
sentinel It 's a shame that `` The Sentinel '' wastes its intelligent faade , because with all the unthrilling thrillers that have come and gone from movie screens , this one might have been worth something . In an age when surprise endings and indie budgets are hip and trendy , it 's nice to get a decent throwback thriller . The script may be manufactured , but the sweat stains are real . Wrestled to the ground by one preposterous plot turn after another . Can Michael Douglas still command attention at the fore of an action film ? Yes % u2026 but it 's perhaps the only interesting facet of `` The Sentinel . '' If I wrote that this is like a bad episode of 24 , that would be a compliment ! sleepy The Sentinel is not half bad , but it 's not nearly as good as it could have been . Michael Douglas , now 61 , needs to push whatever sex appeal it is his booking agents ( and the public ) think he possesses . I do n't care , and neither should you . The movie keeps running in circles , creating the illusion of progress . But by the end , you 've gone nowhere . The Manchurian Candidate it is n't . There are tense situations , daring escapes , shots fired , innocent civilians at risk , foreign terrorists . What else do you need ? 	The Sentinel starts off well enough but quickly wears thin with too many plot holes and conventional action sequences .
white heat Despite chronology ( deranged by the censor 's influence on the studios ) , this is really the fitting climax of the '30s gangster movie . None of Jimmy Cagney 's superlative gangster films of the 1930s approaches this supercharged production . Brilliantly directed by Raoul Walsh , an old master of cinema hoodlumism , it returns a more subtle James Cagney to the kind of thug role that made him famous . The simple fact is that Mr. Cagney has made his return to a gangster role in one of the most explosive pictures that he or anyone has ever played . If you 're looking for Cagney 's best gangster role ever , you got it right here , on the top of the world . Cagney is a force of nature in this movie , alternately frightening and pathetic . Raoul Walsh 's Freudian film is one of the fastest and toughest crime-gangster films ever made , boasting a bravura performance from James Cagney as a misogynist mama boy ( `` top of the world , Ma '' ) . There 's a freewheeling brutality about the picture . White Heat 's ultimate message : love 's a ***** ... even crypto-incestuous love . Cagney is unforgettable in this fascinating , brutal drama 	Raoul Walsh 's crime drama goes further into the psychology of a gangster than most fear to tread and James Cagney 's portrayal of the tragic anti-hero is constantly volatile .
lambert and stamp `` Lambert & Stamp '' is a niche film , but it is a big niche with generations of Who fans that have been loyal to the band for decades . There 's a cool 1960s beat to this documentary , which explores the creation of The Who through the eyes of the two men who made them stars , Kit Lambert and Chris Stamp ... `` A fresh and invigorating film that avoids many of the clichs of the 'rockumentary . ' '' Despite its promising ingredients , `` Lambert and Stamp '' wanders off key . Pop oral history at its most formless and fannish : fixated on juicy tidbits , points of influences , and historical cameos , and sorely lacking a point of view . Many great docs have been made about The Who ( including the ecstatic `` The Kids Are All Right '' ) , but `` Lambert & Stamp '' gets closest to the band 's fragility and unlikely story . Blessed with a wealth of golden b & w footage , James D. Cooper 's poundingly fun , scrappy profile has an unusually satisfying nuts-and-bolts perspective on the '60s fame machine . Overall , `` Lambert & Stamp '' is a fascinating documentary of two men , one of the great rock bands and a moment in time . Riotously entertaining . The rare truthful and beautiful film about the rock 'n ' roll life . 	A sharp accounting of an era framed through the early adventures of the Who and the managers who helped make them famous , Lambert & Stamp should prove fascinating for fans and novices alike .
what the do we know A ponderous documentary . This documentary will either be a life-changing experience , or it 'll drive you nuts with its new-agey tone . Movies are a visual medium , and not even four dimensions of Ph.D.s are going to change that . Not in this lifetime , anyway . A mishmash of a film with boring talking heads effusing about quantum mechanics , an uninvolving melodrama , and a phony finale of transformation . If positive thinking results in computer-animated body cells farting or singing Robert Palmer , our chi , mojo , or whatever has miles to go toward self-actualization . Makes a strong case that quantum physics will impact our future in ways that are now almost unimaginable . In the mood to contemplate life , the universe , and everything ? It will either make you think profound thoughts or make your brain hurt trying to grasp what they 're saying . Sometimes What the # $ * ! Do We Know ! ? has the corny , ham-handed feel of an old 16mm educational movie , but I 'm not sure how intentional this is . I 'd be much more impressed by these notions that nothing is real were they not delivered by people in solid , upscale surroundings . Provocative movies like this open a world of knowledge and ideas , stimulating thinking and conversation . 	Educational , but as entertainment , it 'll have viewers asking , 'What the bleep ? '
pearl jam twenty The music 's the thing and Crowe lets it rip . Entertaining , well made documentary that 's a treat for fans thanks to its wealth of rarely seen footage and newly filmed interviews ... Any enterprise like this is inherently self-congratulatory , but the film is best considered from Crowe 's perspective : that of a fan . Crowe , a former Rolling Stone reporter , wastes unprecedented access to one of modern rock 's most private , compelling and enigmatic acts to create little more than a promotional video for Pearl Jam 's non-stop tours . Pearl Jam Twenty may not create new fans , but for existing fans , it 's an exceptional musical experience . A great introduction to the band as well as a great recap for the fans who have been there all along the way . Very few music documentaries in the history of the form have more successfully conveyed the inner workings and outer artistic expression of a band than Cameron Crowe 's brilliant Pearl Jam Twenty . In a better film , Crowe would have played journalist instead of fan boy . With noticeable gaps between the telling of its first decade and its second , Pearl Jam Twenty did n't necessarily need to be a feature , but is a really lovely fan letter to a band that 's worked hard for the devotion and respect it receives . What makes Pearl Jam Twenty a little better than the average fan-friendly documentary is that Crowe focuses on the more significant parts of the Pearl Jam story . 	Cameron Crowe 's fawning documentary is a true boon for Pearl Jam fans , but the band 's insistent resistance to fame comes off hollow .
kingdom of heaven With Kingdom of Heaven , Ridley proves that good cinema can not wait for terrorism . Coming-of-age describes this historic epic 's hero and the actor who plays him , heartthrob Orlando Bloom , though he is not ready yet for commanding a film with star performance ... may be the first hippie war film . Ridley Scott 's breathtaking historical epic is let down by patchy script . Is Orlando Bloom enough of a star to sustain a $ 100 million costume drama ? The answer turns out to be yes . The movie is almost unwatchable as much of the explanatory scenes appear to have been left on the cutting room floor . Considerably more ambitious and significantly less satisfying than Gladiator . Ridley Scott shies from addressing faith . Kingdom inevitably invites comparisons to Gladiator , Scott 's last major epic . But it is a better film , partly because it does less violence to the history . The biggest shortcoming of this crusader story is not that Scott twists the facts ( he does ) , but that he ca n't elevate the story to something more than an alluring re-creation . 	Although it 's an objective and handsomely presented take on the Crusades , Kingdom of Heaven lacks depth .
cold souls The pedantic borrowings from Kaufman are obvious . Is there any other `` -esque '' to be detected ? There 's Allen-esque , but that comes with the Kaufman-esque territory . Maybe Huxley-esque ? The anxiety of influence hangs heavily here . It 's comical , yes , but glum and brooding , too , a wintry waltz through acting , underground commerce and metaphysics . An amusing slice of existential whimsy with an Eastern European bent . The film is at times hilarious , and yet it is surprisingly melancholy . Giamatti is an astounding actor , as anyone would know who saw his recent portrayal of John Adams , and he here gives a sterling performance , one that is ferociously comic and anarchic , This is a comedy , not a philosophy lesson , and thus richer in bafflement than in understanding . A sombre slice of surrealism , Cold Souls is a welcome opportunity for America 's most agony-prone actor to do what he does best : suffer . Giamatti 's usual character % u2014at least , the one that Cold Souls wishes to exploit % u2014is paper-thin , working better on the periphery than in the center of the narrative . It 's a movie about losing your soul that does n't really have one . The film explores our inability and refusal to `` look inside '' and really try to understand our unconscious . I found myself thinking about this movie for a long time after I got out of the theater . 	Straddling existential drama and surrealist comedy , Sophie Barthes debut feature is beautifully shot and full of inventive quandaries .
1108389-pearl harbor Weak on script but BIG on action . This bunk is history . This is definitely an epic action blockbuster . It 's trying to be with out shame . May be the closest thing to a good movie Michael Bay will ever direct ; unfortunately , it 's still not very close to a good movie . ... diminishes what happened on December 7 , 1941 . While sheer spectacle may be good enough for an ever-easy-to-please moviegoing public , it can not be for Bay , who so clearly , desperately strove for so much more . Add in some dreadful dialogue , unlike Titanic , and you have a movie that has left me sitting on a very disappointed fence . Would have made a good silent movie . In fact , almost all of this film would work better if the actors just did n't open their mouths . Boring , unpleasant and ghoulish . Surely the people who died at Pearl Harbor deserve better than this . After the first few minutes , it 's just fireworks and bodies in motion . 	Pearl Harbor tries to be the Titanic of war movies , but it 's just a tedious romance filled with laughably bad dialogue . The 40 minute action sequence is spectacular though .
metal a headbangers journey Acts not as the window for the outsider into the spectacle of heavy metal music , as the filmmakers proclaim it to be , but an unprovoked fan 's defense for liking what he likes Interviews with metal practitioners such as Tony Iommi , Alice Cooper , Rob Zombie and Dee Snider , journalists and academic types paint a compelling portrait of a vibrant society of outsiders . The metal scene emerges throughout the documentary as the recruitment center of an army of misfits , where the outcasts of the world can seek each other out based on their love of the angsty , eardrum-destroying tunes their parents warned them about . The success of Dunn 's film in support of heavy metal music might be the result of not offering the audience too much music Brings on a variety of eloquent voices from both the fanbase and the gods of metal themselves . It 's a measure of Dunn 's success that even a total nonfan like myself could find his journey interesting . Full of splendid social and psychological insights . A documentary that preaches to the converted if ever there was one , but Dunn 's enthusiasm for the subject and the range of pretension and humour of his interviewees makes for fun viewing . Much-maligned heavy metal gets a much-needed boost in Canadian filmmaker/longtime headbanger Sam Dunn 's entertaining and informative documentary . This documentary about one of the most loathed , lampooned and beloved music genres is n't the kind of film to rock your world , though it may well inspire laughter . 	Made by a metalhead , this documentary of the musical genre both informs and entertains with its range of interviewees .
the lion king Wondrously imaginative , The Lion King is superior family entertainment , charming in every way . The entire film is loaded with eye-popping visuals , which , even on a second viewing , never fail to mesmerize . Everyone , young and old , will find something to appreciate in this Shakespearean tale of a young lion discovering his rightful place in the world . It makes you laugh , it could very well make you cry , and the animation is just magnificent . It could be the most well-rounded film that Disney has ever made . Songs variable . Animation staggering . A winner . A classic animated film . There 's a reason it was the highest grossing animated flick until Finding Nemo came along ... a marvel for all ages . The Lion King , more than any of the recent wave of Disney animated features , has the resonance to stand not just as a terrific cartoon but as an emotionally pungent movie . It 's the stuff of classics , and every shred of this movie matches the intent and soulful message of personal growth and evolution , which is why it remains the emotional triumph it is . A crown jewel of modern Disney animation . Not just a movie , but a marketing phenomenon . 	Emotionally stirring , richly drawn , and beautifully animated , The Lion King stands tall within Disney 's pantheon of classic family films .
yards Despite all the same path , different movie cliches , there are good points to the film . Performances are all right in line , even if Wahlberg does nothing special here to address his range as an actor . Una buena opcin para quienes desean ver buenas actuaciones y una historia sobre problemtica social y moral ... The movie 's depiction of its characters ... has the depth and complexity of real life , and the actors know how to deliver the goods . Its realism in a fastidiously plausible plot is given energy and life by an exemplary ensemble cast . The film is rich in complex characters . I ca n't remember when a film so well-acted and so well-rendered visually was also so oppressive to sit through . The only thing the movie lacks is a pulse . Things in The Yards become so hard to swallow that even the most easygoing movie-goers will find it hard to suspend disbelief . Wahlberg 's sympathetic portrayal of an unlucky loser is probably the best work that he has ever done . It is full of action and unexpected plot turns , and is beautifully acted by three veteran performers and three newer ones . 	Featuring strong performances and direction , The Yards is a richly textured crime thriller with an authentic feel .
mr magoriums wonder emporium ... there 's a droll and engaging heart under all that CGI marzipan . Mr. Magorium 's Wonder Emporium truly does inspire wonder . As in , 'Wonder why they made this ? Wonder what they were thinking ? ' Bland and soft-toned ... very young children might enjoy a visit to Mr. Magorium 's , but most everyone else will probably prefer a quick exit . Schmaltzy musical cues ensure we all get the message , but the desperately dull final third is likely to drive both kids and grown-ups to nose-picking , seat-kicking distraction . The magic only comes in occasional flashes , with the rest of the time filled by forced silliness that is not united by anything more than talk of smiles and puppies and rainbows Trying with all its might to be endearing , the magic is simply missing . Hoffman is unbelievably annoying as the lisping Willy Wonka wannabe , while Portman looks uninterested . This children 's tale of magical whimsy miraculously avoids even toying with violence - while confronting the finality of death head-on . The world of children 's literature continues to be raped by Hollywood and Mr. Magorium 's Wonder Emporium is its latest victim . Better to prepare your children for the world with a DVD of Hoffman in Midnight Cowboy . Alert readers spotting similarities to Willy Wonka should now reward themselves with a handful of Everlasting Gobstoppers . 	Mr. Magorium 's Wonder Emporium 's title is much more fun that the film itself , as the colorful visuals and talented players ca n't make up for a bland story .
adventures of baron munchausen A film that when it is good is very , very good , and when it is bad , it can be quite bad . Like its hero , extraordinary in every way . [ Blu-Ray review ] Its intellectual intent and the physical production seem disconnected , leaving a film that bedazzles the eye even as it bedevils the mind . This is a vast and commodious work , and even allowing for the unsuccessful passages there is a lot here to treasure . The sheer volume and invention of Gilliam 's visual largess sets him apart , and his wit operates for the most part at a dangerously sophisticated level . Superbly photographed and marvelously lighted , this remarkable set piece of art direction and stunning decor cures many of its own ills , including a screenplay that meanders grandly . As vastly expensive pieces of set tumble everywhere one can not help but consider that white elephants , whilst they mat be a burden to keep , are splendid things to look at . Yet another of the brilliant Terry Gilliam 's wonderful , witty flights of fancy . Terry Gilliam shows more pure creativity in this film than in any of his others . The carnivalesque chaos is anchored in stage actor John Neville 's charismatic lead turn . 	Bursting with Terry Gilliam 's typically imaginative flourishes , this story of a possibly deranged Baron recounting his storied life is a flamboyant and witty visual treat .
austin powers international man of mystery Myers 's charming goofiness lets him push even the most clich 'd jokes so far that they become funny . Austin Powers is worth a look and will definitely boost Myers ' career . The things it 's parodying -- Beatles and Bond movies and all those secret-agent TV shows of the 60s -- were already so tongue in cheek that one needs to go a lot further than this movie goes to really amuse me . The movie fails to live up to its promise . Groovy , baby . Plain wonderful ! Spy movie parodies are common , but Myers is observant enough to notice things that others have n't . It 's a cult hit already . Be there or be square , baby . The film is a lot of fun and there are plenty of laughs . I know good silly fun when I see it . 	A light and goofy comedy which provides laughs , largely due to performances and screenwriting by Myers .
condemned It has the audacity to serve as a self-righteous indictment of graphic , gratuitous violence , even though that 's exactly what it 's peddling . This movie did n't just miss the boat on the condemnation of reality TV ; it started swimming in the other direction to try to catch up with it . A sloppy , black-hearted pile of crap , calculated to titillate an audience of tools by giving them tough-guy dialogue , savage violence , and Nickelback songs . Where 's Richard Dawson when you need him ? What a base , and baseless , film this is . After indulging the audience in butt-kicking action , director Scott Wiper and his small squad of co-writers segue into disingenuous moralizing about the way society enjoys watching violence . If Rodriguez and Tarantino had been smart with Grindhouse , they would have dropped Tarantino 's talky Deathproof and replaced it with The Condemned . ... Scott Wiper 's hopelessly inept directorial choices - coupled with an overall vibe of ugliness - ensures that the movie ultimately fares about as well as its straight-to-video action brethren ... Perhaps the worst aspect of this shameless rehash of better movies like Battle Royale ( 2000 ) , Series 7 ( 2001 ) and even The Running Man ( 1987 ) is not its astonishing dullness but its pretentions to moral rectitude . Attacking the intended audience is one of those things that a filmmaker just does n't do . Jeez ! 	The Condemned is a morally ambiguous , exceedingly violent and mostly forgettable action film .
man on fire A notch above your average genre movie . This is garbage , but it 's entertaining garbage . At 142 minutes , Man on Fire is too long , but watching the mystery unravel is still jolly good fun . This is a dark but wonderfully created picture of friendship and love . Serves up revenge , loud bangs , grisly deaths and heavy symbolism in Mexico with some relish - and extra cheese . Long and torturous . An over-big , over-loud , over-heated , over-long , over-everything mess of a story about this year 's most popular movie topic , revenge . Tony Scott 's Man on Fire employs superb craftsmanship and a powerful Denzel Washington performance in an attempt to elevate genre material above its natural level , but it fails . Features solid characterizations , interesting twists and turns , suspense , action , drama and about as many creative ways of accentuating the action as I 've ever seen . Overblown , hyperactive . 	Man on Fire starts out well , but goes over the top in the violent second half .
friends with money One would assume ( Holofcener ) knows a thing or two about female friendships , but you would n't know it from this drivel . Amusing and astute , a smart observation on the ups and downs of female friendships . Although the women provide the narrative 's social glue , it 's never clear how they formed their bonds . Rather than story , Friends With Money is founded on ready-made behavioral metaphors . ... remains oddly uninvolving for the majority of its brisk running time . It 's a thoughtful , funny film whose especially appealing cast makes up for what it lacks in plot . [ I ] t 's hard to distinguish [ Holofcener 's ] more tentative approach to narrative [ here ] from an identity crisis . Maybe that 's why McDormand 's material has by far the most bite . In hanging out with Franny , Christine , Jane and Olivia , you get not only a nuanced portrait of women 's friendship but a glorious showcase of four actresses in their prime . In a low-key way , it 's a very fine performance . Poker-faced Aniston may be , but everything Olivia needs to say is right there in her eyes . At first glance , you may feel you 've seen this one before , but serious afterthought reveals layers of depth and meaning , anchored by a stringent critique of both sexes . Una comedia agridulce sobre las relaciones de pareja y amistad de cuatro mujeres acomodadas , con buenos dilogos y observacin de personajes . Muy buen elenco . 	Stong lead performances , witty dialogue and wry observations cement Friends With Money as another winning dramedy from writer/director Nicole Holofcener .
the holy girl A low-key tone poem about the passions of sex and religion A collection of beautifully acted encounters , conversations , symbols , and vignettes woven into an evocative and unforgettably surreal garment . Martel 's style is tentative , elusive , so much so that even the most conventional episodes benefit from her fresh perspective . We 're not sure why one is supposed to care . A subtle artist and a sharp observer , Martel manages a large cast with an ease that matches her skill at storytelling , within which psychological insight and social comment flow easily and implicitly . what should have been a religious experience comes off more like a botched coming-of-age tale with some pungent atmospherics . Martel 's distinctive and fascinatingly innovative style warrants her being considered as an auteur . In stripping her potentially lurid material of salacious appeal , Martel also makes it murky and oddly arid , a mind-numbing exercise rather than an experience . After a while , the film casts its spell . Quien haya visto La Cinaga reconocer en La Nia Santa su manera de mirar y revelar la naturaleza humana desde la pequeez y la aparente intrascendencia de momentos banales . 	This provocative , lyrical drama mixes themes of forbidden sexuality and redemptive faith with a touch of humanism in a memorable , if disorienting , visual style .
million dollar baby If the film does n't sucker punch you on first viewing , its humanity is sure to haunt for days afterward Million Dollar Baby earns your eight or nine bucks . The movie is about fights and wounds and healings , beginnings and endings , that are not only physical but mental , psychological , spiritual . Like a title bout that goes through seven rounds of friendly push and poke before exploding into a knockout combination . The director and actors manage to turn a chicken droppings story into a chicken salad movie . Is it really this good ? In a word , yes . It 's a brave piece of work that 's more than just moving -- it 's genuinely upsetting , and haunting . I do n't feel the third act delivers the knock-out blow that 's intended , but it 's still a technical decision win for Eastwood , Swank and Freeman . It is not a great movie because it strives to be important , but because it simply tries to tell a story of people who enter each other 's lives , endure a series of struggles and triumphs , and emerge forever changed . `` Million Dollar Baby '' is a tragic film about an innately paternal man 's desperate need to overcome his own emotional traps and the loyal girl who facilitates his growth by her steely will and stubborn drive . 	Clint Eastwood 's assured direction - combined with knockout performances from Hilary Swank and Morgan Freeman - help Million Dollar Baby to transcend its clichs , and the result is deeply heartfelt and moving .
why do fools fall in love Director Gregory Nava 's recreation of Frankie Lymon 's late '50s-early '60s performances are exuberant . Worth it for the music -- but only barely . Totally entertaining ! Once heard , the song can never be forgotten ! Fails to bring anything new to what is rapidly becoming a genre unto itself ( the 'talented but betrayed and flawed musical legend dead before their time ' genre ) making one wonder Why Did They Even Bother ? Worth seeing just for the soundtrack and the nostalgia . A celebration of pop fantasies , a boyish rascal with a helium voice , and three pretty fools who fell in love with him . Why Did Three Women Marry This Fool ? The performances will ensure that Fools will fare better than most movies about music icons . A fun romp down memory lane ! 	This is a fun comedy with delightful musical numbers .
somersault ( Director Cate ) Shortland has a sensitivity to the confused , unformed , irrational feelings that swirl around them . A small film , done with limited resources , but it 's impressive -- and so is Cornish . This is a coming of age film that matters , an incredibly assured feature debut for Shortland and breakout performance for its star . An incisive and emotive account of a girl masquerading as a woman , and the danger that entails . My impression remained this time around of an unfinished screenplay in which too many intervals of small talk masqueraded as the forerunners of emotional events that never materialized . Its central character , a 16-year-old who uses sex for intimacy , just might be the clue to the emotions that a great many teens go through . There 's not nearly enough sex Director Cate Shortland has created a truthful , textured tale , exploring the subtlety and sensuality in all her scenes -- and never taking them exactly where expected . A moody sojourn into the horrific funhouse of adolescence . Heartfelt , painful , exhilarating and , above all , truthful . 	A poignant coming-of-age tale marked by a breakout lead performance from Abbie Cornish and a successful directorial debut from Cate Shortland .
1175076-fred claus The burden of having a famous sibling seems fraught with comedic possibilities , but whatever potential existed has been squandered and then some in Fred Claus , dumping coal into everyone 's holiday stocking . A great cast fights a losing battle against moldy Christmas movie material in the holiday comedy Fred Claus . More no no no than ho ho ho , Vince Vaughn 's crime against cinema is a worthy winner of this year 's Deck The Halls prize for least welcome Christmas present . Make no mistake : Fred Claus is the real Bad Santa . About as funny as a sack of coal . The satire on globalism and downsizing is also as old as the Clinton administration , but that does n't stop director David Dobkin from selling it like fresh goods . Watching this kind of talent forced to muddle through this minefield of tired and embarrassing jokes is almost enough to make you reject the baby Jesus altogether . A ho-ho-hum yuletide comedy trying to shoehorn Vaughn 's fast talking wise-guy brand into a warm and fuzzy Christmas confection that seems like it has been focus-grouped to smithereens . Holiday comedy 's no classic , but it 's OK for kids . An engaging idea gets mostly lost amid underdeveloped characters , a pointless subplot and creepy CGI . A true Christmas classic to take the whole family to and enjoy . Put up your tree in anticipation of this film and get in the spirit , because this film will definitely cause you too . 	A slew of talent is wasted in this contrived and overly sentimental Christmas film , which ca n't quite get the balance between slapstick humor and sentimental family moments .
12 oclock boys 2013 Using Baltimore 's dirt-bike groups as its entry point , the film offers a remarkable grassroots look at how the system is broken at the inner-city level . Documentary filmmaker Lotfy Nathan explores the outlaw appeal of an inner-city Baltimore dirt-bike gang through the eyes of a 13-year-old wannabe member named Pug . In this transfixing documentary about a Baltimore boy striving to join illegal urban dirt bikers , first-time filmmaker Lofty Nathan conjures a unique journalistic excitement . Its rhythm is the jagged rhythm of everyday life , and its primary asset is its unemphatic authenticity , offering a window into a very specific time and place . It 's easy to see how the combination of Zen-like grace and adrenalized thrills might allow someone stuck in a miserable urban hellhole to forget their everyday troubles , if only for a few seconds at a time . Take a closer look , as Lofty Nathan does in his freewheeling debut feature ... and bike gangs like the 12 O'Clock Boys start to differentiate as more than just a dangerous nuisance . That Nathan is able to cover so much ground in a mere 76 minutes makes 12 O'Clock Boys all the more remarkable and essential . Lotfy Nathan 's hand-held camerawork , combined with a snappy hip-hop soundtrack , gives the documentary a sense of immediacy . This slice-of-life effort presents a complicated picture when it comes to the world of urban dirt biking , acknowledging the dangers involved while celebrating its utility as an outlet for the pent-up emotions of a people left behind by society . Nathan 's approach is observational and reminds me of the way Steve James constructed Hoop Dreams , following the emerging story while creating context by including footage of Pug and his mother , Coco , at home ... 	Visually striking and grippingly fast-paced , 12 O'Clock Boys asks thought-provoking questions with admirable subtlety and restraint .
superman returns Resembling Reeve both physically and vocally , Routh certainly has large red boots to fill . And he fills them admirably The cinematic rebirth of Superman could not have been put in abler hands . Director Bryan Singer has taken us soaring back into the sky . Superman Returns is a bombastic , rousing , explosive burst of summer fun and fantasy , enriched by its predecessors and rejuvenated by the new blood and slavish religious devotion of director Bryan Singer . The plane taking off , flying and nearly crashing into the earth almost serves as a metaphor for the entire Superman Returns experience . May be the most reverent superhero film ever made . Its deliberate lack of originality is demoralizing . I treasured the experience of watching Superman Returns , both as a rabid fan of Richard Donner 's initial gamble and as a filmgoer starving to witness filmmakers with an actual grasp on the idea of an epic cinematic vision . Film of the year so far . [ In ] isolated moments Singer honors the myth and finds a fresh way to dramatize it . The director is scheduled to do a sequel , to be released in 2009 . Maybe in that one we 'll get more magic along with the reverence . Lois Lane may have won the Pulitzer prize for journalism , but she is one lousy speller . . . 	Bryan Singer 's reverent and visually decadent adaptation gives the Man of Steel welcome emotional complexity . The result : a satisfying stick-to-your-ribs adaptation .
sweeney todd the demon barber of fleet street 2007 Tim Burton , Johnny Depp , and Helena Bonham-Carter have made so many films together that they 're starting to resemble each other . One of the most memorable films of the year . Sweeney Todd is as much a horror film as a musical . It is also something close to a masterpiece . Did I mention lately how very much I love Tim Burton 's brain ? Few could have taken , would have dared to take , a musical stage play of this depth and managed to make it into such a beautiful film . Burton and his gang have though . Read On- > Great idea -- a musical with actors who ca n't sing . Even for Tim Burton and Johnny Depp it 's really dark material . You 'll be twisted , manipulated and repulsed , but always entertained . You might also find yourself uttering `` God , That 's Good . '' H panemorfi apeikonisi toy heiroteroy Londinoy tis istorias toy ap ' ton Tim Burton , ap ' to ena mati mpainei ki ap ' to allo bgainei , prosferontas mpoliki ikanopoiisi tin ora poy ksediplonetai , alla elahista na pareis mazi soy ekso ap ' tin aithoysa . The whole experience is underwhelming , except for the violence , which is entirely overwhelming . It pulls you into Burton 's world with its stunning performances and visuals . 	Full of pith and Grand Guignol grossness , this macabre musical is perfectly helmed and highly entertaining . Tim Burton masterfully stages the musical in a way that will make you think he has done this many times before .
fox and the hound A southern gothic -- and a damn good one at that The most charming of Disney features of the 1980s , with two appealing protagonists and a worthy story . Too long given the dearth of ideas in the script . Better than you might think . Sweet but a bit dull ... Overall , the picture is good-hearted and colorful , with an ending that carries a nice touch of ambiguity about the tussle of nature and nurture . [ Blu-ray ] One of the more homely Disney animated features . Importantly , the story relies on plot to carry it along and serves as a welcome reminder that audiences do n't require a popular reference or in-joke every five minutes to sustain their interest . One of the weaker Disney animated films . Cloying and cutesy , a helpless callback to a number of truly classic movies that it could n't hope to equal , let alone better . A wounded and unresolved movie free of the expected Disney cutesiness and complacency . 	The Fox and the Hound is a likeable , charming , unassuming effort that manages to transcend its thin , predictable plot .
tears of the black tiger All in all a thoroughly enjoyable romp with echoes of familiarity ... and yet unlike anything you 've ever seen or are likely to see again . Has lots of pop energy and an admirable poker-face when it comes to its Douglas Sirk-ian storyline . And even though it 's essentially a Frankenstein 's monster stitched together from a zillion other movies , you really have n't seen anything like it . The movie is a riot of tropical turquoise , magenta and pink , spiced with marigold , red and green . You 'd swear it was drenched in a tangy tamarind sauce Gives you some idea of what would happen if Ang Lee and John Woo were asked to make a cartoon together . It 's watchable , but eventually wears you down with its over-the-top cleverness . An oddity , all right : you may find it of interest once . I doubt if you 'll want to see its like again . If the story were as captivating as the color palette , we 'd all be crying tears for the Black Tiger . An enjoyably energetic genre romp . A deliberately laboured plot is offset by some fascinating action sequences . What the story lacks in snap , it makes up for in sincerity . [ The film 's ] melodrama is so poker-faced and its gore so explicit ( if phony-looking ) that it 's hard to tell whether you 're dealing with the Thai Todd Haynes or the Thai Sam Peckinpah . 	With a vibrant pastel color scheme and stylized action sequences , Tears of the Black Tiger is a bizarre , yet thoroughly entertaining Thai western .
thank you for smoking Funny enough movie but not much there there . A snarkily playful little comedy that gets so wrapped up in its own barbed witticisms that it fails to land even the lightest sucker-punches on the black , bleak big business institutions it aims to skewer . [ Jason ] Reitman makes an amazingly confident feature debut . Thank You for Smoking is funny stuff . Enjoyable satire with a sharp script and strong performances , though it 's not quite focussed enough to really stick the knife in . A comedy likely to delight both mainstream and art-house audiences . Aaron Eckhart is fleet of foot and prolific with patter as the aptly named Naylor , but his high wire act ultimately can not hide the fact that writer/director Jason Reitman 's feature debut is as glib as Naylor 's tongue . Though a bit shallow and only sporadically really sharp , this well-acted and stylishly looking social satire is fast-moving and entertaining enough to overcome its weaknesses . Leave your preconceptions at the door , prepare for your favourite causes to be skewered , and enjoy . This is one fun movie . One of the most entertaining riffs on American culture in years . There 's so much to admire about Thank You for Smoking , you savor it for the rare satire that it is . 	Loaded with delightfully unscrupulous characters and and a witty , cynical script , Thank You For Smoking is a sharp satire with a brilliantly smarmy lead performance from Aaron Eckhart .
first daughter Reminds you of a political campaign : it 's colorful and flashy but completely vacuous , and differs very little from its competitor . There are stiff politicians and there are stiff political movies , but the rigidity of the White House-based fairy tale that is First Daughter is in a category even pollsters may have a hard time assessing . If you must see one of the two Presidential daughter movies - this is the one to see . But like Chasing Liberty , it never delivers on the potential of the premise . A steaming pile of offal . A glossy , well-mounted , slickly done but almost stuporously predictable affair , both formula-bound and utterly illogical . Merely another sugary confection rolling off that increasingly bland Hollywood conveyer belt The mix of formulaic 'tweener ' material with more serious subject matter plays like a politician who tries to please everybody - a valiant attempt but we all see through it . Once again the performers outshine the plot . ... a perfunctory little picture that does n't go far beyond sitcom superficiality . ... basically entertaining - particularly if approached on the same level one approaches a sitcom . 	First Daughter is a bland and charmless fairy tale that fails to rise above the formula .
like father like son 2013 The performances in the film , ... are both believable and riveting . The adult cast portrays characters with depth and substance , and let 's face it , the kids are just downright adorable . It 's built to be the austere version of a tear-jerking crowd-pleaser , and that 's just what it is , though with a bizarre cross-cultural eccentricity at the center of it . It 's well-acted and quietly powerful without settling for easy solutions to its unique dilemma . The simple , tragicomic trails of fatherhood are captured with perfection in the latest from Japan 's Hirokazu Koreeda . A moving drama about parenthood from Japanese filmmaker Hirokazu Kore-eda . Like Father , Like Son might seem too deliberate or challenging for mainstream viewers , but those willing to adjust to Kore-eda 's approach will be rewarded by a movie that delves deeply into some of the central issues of our society . While some of the class conflict is predictable , the movie wins out by treating everyone as individuals , not types , and maintaining a muted tone . Like Father Like Son plays out as a gentle , cautionary morality tale for our times , which might be its weakness . An affecting film , thanks to Fukuyama 's understated turn and Koreeda 's typically graceful visual storytelling . A genuinely poignant , compelling and well-acted family drama . 	Sensitively written , smartly directed , and powerfully performed , Like Father , Like Son uses familiar-seeming elements to tell a thought-provoking story .
guess who An uneven but moderately entertaining comedy that plays largely on the strengths of Mac 's comic timing . At heart , this is just another rehash of Meet the Parents . The laughs are few and far between . If it falls betwixt and between hilarious and meaningful , consider that a testament to where we are as a culture on this topic : able to laugh at the jokes and still vulnerable to our fears . A surprisingly effective and heartfelt comedy ... Update on Poitier classic is n't as memorable . One of the things that makes this film much better than it has any right to be is the enormous talent of Bernie Mac . A bland rom-com that seems afraid of its own subject matter . Guess Who is a pleasant surprise . Ashton Kutcher 's at his most endearing and Bernie Mac is the best he 's been in a feature film . The film does pop off some huge belly laughs before the formula gets the better of it . 	Despite the chemistry of its stars , Guess Who , a loose remake of Guess Who 's Coming to Dinner , lacks the political relevance of the original .
space jam Simpler and cruder than Who Framed Roger Rabbit in terms of story and technique , this is still a great deal of fun , confirming that Jordan is every bit as mythological a creature as Daffy Duck or Yosemite Sam . An empty , soulless corporate product , designed for one purpose : to separate us from our wallets . It 's an inspired way to use , and kid , Jordan 's image while at the same time updating Bugs Bunny & Company to doing battle in the multizillion-dollar animation sweepstakes . Sufferin ' succotash ! The movie 's undermining flaw is its lack of screen magic ( and first-rate cartoon gags ) that Who Framed Roger Rabbit had throughout . Attempts to inject some hipness into the classic cartoon characters , not to mention some potty-mouthed dialogue , will enrage purists , but otherwise this pretty much scores a slam dunk with its under-five target audience . Jordan has immense likability , and his extraordinary talents need no further adulation . The negatives in this film far outweigh any of the positives . This film was made very quickly by animation standards , and the haste shows . A cynical attempt to cash in on the popularity of Warner Bros. cartoon characters and basketball player Michael Jordan , inspired by a Nike commercial . 	A harmless mishmash of basketball and animation that 'll entertain kids but leave adults less than thrilled .
thx 1138 The new digital meddling and a bunch of gratuitous , anachronistic effects shots only serve to make the movie even more annoying than it used to be . An impressive accomplishment -- sadly tarnished in this new release by Lucas ' mania towards tweaking his old films with the latest special-effects technology . The thought put into the world of THX 1138 clearly shows a respect for the audience who crave to know more than just basic plot and character development . The most remarkable thing about THX 1138 is its unsettling sound design , pieced together by Lucas and Walter Murch . May be a naively simple variation on that other George-Orwell-but it remains a dazzling triumph of creativity and style over financial limitations . Muddled and hopelessly artsy , but at least Lucas got it out of his system early on . This new , highly polished upgrade is a nice gift for science fiction fans . A modest , somber vision of the future . THX 1138 shows that Lucas was once interested in letting actors act , and in letting the audience think for themselves . It reveals just how much his technological toys have crippled him as a storyteller . One of those rare titles that has improved with age . 	George Lucas ' feature debut presents a spare , bleak , dystopian future , and features evocatively minimal set design and creepy sound effects .
street fighter the legend of chun li The good news is that I only need 9 more movies for my 10 Worst List . Like a failed offspring sullying its family name , this laughable would-be diversion has only its digitally-based predecessors going for it . Even by the admittedly lowered standards of video game adaptations , the new Street Fighter movie stinks . Quite simply an embarrassment that can not crawl into ignoble obscurity fast enough . a.k.a `` Black Belt Norah Jones '' If you thought they could n't possibly make a Street Fighter movie that was worse than the 1994 Jean-Claude Van Damme camp-fest , you 'll be unpleasantly surprised . I ca n't remember the last time I watched an actor fail to walk into a room convincingly , but Chris Klein does it . Look for a YouTube montage of his Street Fighter performance to pop up any day now . There will never be a good video game movie no matter how many stars pop up to headline them . The Legend of Chun-Li is as vapid and dull as it is . I much prefer the flamboyant badness of the '94 flick to the attractive , even-keeled mediocrity of this one . Jean-Claude Van Damme 's stock just rose considerably . 	The combination of a shallow plot and miscast performers renders Street Fighter : The Legend of Chun Li a perfectly forgettable video game adaptation .
28 days Sure , alcoholism and comedy are as hard to mix correctly as a dry martini , but director Thomas ca n't seem to overcome this script , which could have used some rehab itself . Mostly , though , this is a cookie-cutter drama . The result is a hard-knocks movie whose edges are smoothed away to please an addiction to happy endings . Bullock brings a kind of ground-level vulnerability to 28 Days that does n't make her into a victim but simply into one more suitable case for treatment . None of the characters are particularly engaging , not even Bullock . An underrated actress , Bullock capably fulfills the demands of her role as a pill-popping drunk . But the story never allows Bullock to escape the comfort zone of a romantic comedy . Bullock downplays her trademark mannerisms and allows her character to take precedence . 28 Days may be fluff , but it 's good fluff : effortless , amusing and almost touching . A surprisingly emotional and funny picture . 28 Days possesses all the depth and insight of a made-for-TV movie . 	Even though 28 Days is tackling a difficult subject , it comes off light and superficial , and maybe even a little preachy .
thirteen It 's well worth seeing , even at the risk of making you want to lock your daughter in her room for the next six years . Wood is superb at delineating Tracy 's slide into desperate incoherence , but equally impressive is Reed , who has to conceal her writer 's intelligence in playing a character who 's entirely instinctive and unreflective . Hunter gives a sympathetic , delicate performance . Evan Rachel Wood , Nikki Reed and Holly Hunter give hard-edged , brilliant performances in this gritty coming-of-age drama . A must see ! This piercingly strong movie puts the 'hell ' in the Hello Kitty generation . Wood 's performance is revelatory , and she 's matched by the always-terrific Hunter . Unlike Daniel Myrick 's 'Kids , ' this one treats the rebellious teen sympathetically and credibly . ... a cautionary tale , and as such it is unlikely to be heeded by teens anywhere and unlikely to be seen by the very parents who might learn the most from it . As the girls descend into realms of the irreparable , you twist and turn in your seats , in terror for them and also in empathy for Wood 's character . [ T ] his should be required viewing for anyone who 's a parent or even thinking about becoming a parent . 	An emotionally wrenching , not to mention terrifying , film about the perils of being a teenager .
national gallery The director 's eye is the eye of his lens so the point of view we see is our own . The museum 's interior is neoclassical , and Wiseman 's severely restrained style of filmmaking matches it perfectly . The elder statesman of American documentary , Frederick Wiseman , returns with an in-depth look at London 's great museum , home to a spectacular array of masterpieces . One of cinema 's Old Masters returns with this poetic and profound dissection of art and storytelling . Long , leisurely paced , wide-ranging , meticulously crafted , intellectually intricate , and touched with profundity . It 's beautifully organised , and there 's no way you could possibly watch it without learning all kinds of stuff . This one is n't a complete soup to nuts exploration of an administration so much as it is an exploration of how we communicate with art , Wiseman 's sly sense of humor peaking through in his editing . This is a love letter to the National Gallery which beguiles like a visual tone poem . You may initially find yourself missing the emotional pull of the film 's first sections , but it 's all to an increasingly intriguing point . After 47 years of making documentaries , Frederick Wiseman has his methodology down pretty darn pat , for better or worse ( usually better ) . 	National Gallery finds director Frederick Wiseman doing what he does best : Drawing the viewer in with richly detailed , patiently constructed observations on modern institutions .
killer klowns from outer space The title says it all ... and is the only reason to see this misfire . IT 'S GOT CLOWNS ! FROM OUTER SPACE ! AND THEY 'RE KILLING PEOPLE ! What 's not to like ? Boy , you know , I really like the Chiodo Brothers ' Killer Klowns from Outer Space . I ca n't help it . Chiodo takes an alien invasion plot familiar from the 50s , and makes it all his own by rigorously and liberally painting it with every clown reference imaginable . 'Ca n't Sleep , Clowns Will Eat Me . ' Not just pretty words , thanks to the Chiodo brothers . The title alone encourages immediate dismissal , but for those on the hunt for something miles away from the norm that showcases truly inspired moviemaking minds , Killer Klowns from Outer Space is a superb cult distraction . This krazy , kooky movie strings together the creature feature with the alien movie , and pumps it full of dark humour It 's a one-gag movie , but while some of the iterations of that gag are about as hilarious as a squirt in the face from a plastic flower , a few are genuinely rib-tickling . Yes , it 's goofy but the klowns really are killer . The name says it all , and the movie delivers . 	Killer Klowns from Outer Space 's title promises darkly goofy fun -- and more often than not , the movie delivers .
four christmases Four Christmases is refreshingly tart and lean , forgoing the usual schmaltz and syrup of the season . A good start to the holiday season . A fabulous cast is thrown away on forced gags ; still , by the genre 's standards the message is interestingly complex and ambivalent - pro-family , naturally , but with such qualifications that you almost feel it 's sincere . Even with the clich and rushed ending , the flick survives on its clever dialogue that made me laugh out loud a dozen times . In this egregious Christmas movie , Vince Vaughn and Reese Witherspoon each demonstrate the classic `` Hollywood romcom '' face : waxy as a corpse , dead-eyed with self-loathing . The difference between the average unfunny comedy and this one is the difference between Grandpa telling you knock-knock jokes and Grandpa telling you knock-knock jokes with his bathrobe open as his hand creeps up your thigh . The cynicism may not hold up as we get closer to the holiday itself , but with a little distance between us and the reason for the season , they did make me laugh . Feels like they wanted to make 5 different holiday movies and could n't decide which plot line was best , so they rolled them all together , glossing over everything . Director Seth Gordon 's debut feature is a mutant meringue of a movie , with the sugar icing oddly squashed beneath the bitter lemon filling curdling on top . The result is an unpleasant goo that 's neither sweet nor sour . Vaughn may , in fact , be the best possible representative of our over-caffeinated age -- rambling , reckless , selfish and yet still somehow awesome -- and he 's what makes Four Christmases as barely watchable as it is . 	Despite a strong cast , this sour holiday comedy suffers from a hackneyed script .
next ... unbelievably sloppy ... If this all sounds like tripe , that 's because it is . Thoroughly ridiculous yet basically entertaining ... Next plays like the most boring episode ever of 24 , with a little extrasensory flavor tossed in for good measure . Yes , Cage is woefully miscast , but he is n't what derails the movie . The tagline says , 'If you can see the future , you can save it . ' For that matter , if you do n't see Next , you can save 96 minutes . What starts out as a mildly diverting thriller blows itself to smithereens in the final reel . A sort of warm-up for the heroism of his now-filming National Treasure sequel , Next requires Cage only to look pensive and occasionally be charming . If I could look into the future , I would n't have seen this movie at all . Tamahori turns in a very sloppy production . Jessica Biel puts in an Oscar worthy performance to make us believe a hot babe like her would be interested in a balding , creepy guy twice her age like Nic Cage , so give her some props . 	Numerous plot holes and poorly motivated characters prevent Next from being the thought-provoking sci-fi flick it could 've been .
gullivers-travels-2010 Lilliputian light and unconcerned about it , Gulliver 's Travels clears enough antic elbow room for its liberal adaptation of Jonathan Swift 's classic novel to do its thing without too much offense and then pretty much disappears . It 's all silly , predictable fun , with director Rob Letterman delivering a smattering of well-executed sight gags . A big idea reaps small dividends in a comedy fantasy that 's only likely to score laughs from the tiniest audience members . Mostly it veers between the very mildly chucklesome and plain not funny . Black was already the world 's biggest little kid , and he might be the only actor who could have made this movie such nimble fun . No matter how thin the concept , Black always manages to make it his own . A feeble rip-off of Jonathan Swift 's 18th-century satire , reduced to a succession of lame jokes and a drearily unfunny star vehicle for Jack Black . Dumbing down does n't come more dispiriting than this . As disinterested in itself as Gulliver 's Travels seems to be , it 's a wonder it ever came into existence at all . Some films are phoned in . The staggeringly awful `` Gulliver 's Travels '' was texted . A classic ready-made for the era of big-budget 3D spectacle gets the least classy treatment imaginable . It 's a product for undemanding children to consume , one they 'll forget pretty quickly after leaving the theater . 	Though Jack Black is back doing what he does best , Gulliver 's Travels largely fails to do any justice to its source material , relying instead on juvenile humor and special effects .
charlie and the chocolate factory Though the idea of a Burton / Dahl collaboration would seem a perfect aligning of sensibilities , it becomes incredibly apparent that the director 's pretenses get in the way of Dahl 's simpler intent . Coming from the fertile and creative mind of Tim Burton , it is still a marvelous confectionary delight , especially to those who like a darker chocolate . Its heart is in the right place and it resists the temptation to junk up the story , but Depp does nothing with his character and the movie has little of the unique wit or panache that would make it appealing to an older-than-10 audience . Burton and Dahl share what could best be called an affinity for whimsical misery . Delightfully bittersweet . Speaking as a diehard fan of Depp 's strangest work , it breaks my heart that this one just does n't come off . We 're always stubbornly aware it 's just Johnny being weird again . Poised to become a new cult classic to replace the old one . The Wilder film is like Hershey 's milk chocolate , while Burton 's film is like a chunk of Scharffen Berger . Begins with a bubble-gum bang , but leaves viewers gobstopped in the detached , thinly plotted half-pleasures of watching CGI mechanisms implode in a rainbow of fruit flavors . More madcap than the original , with even more spectacular set designs and production values . 	Closer to the source material than 1971 's Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory , Charlie and the Chocolate Factory is for people who like their Chocolate visually appealing and dark .
away we go Away We Go is merely a bemused sigh of relief . It is not the most memorable film of recent times , but does little wrong as it goes about its business . Away We Go makes a nice metaphor for a rootless , self-involved culture of parents trying to get it right and getting all the wrong advice as they do . A low-key comedy with its lead characters displaying an ambling , laid-back charm . The unassuming performances by Krasinski and Rudolph help make this the first Mendes movie that feels lived-in rather than staged . A heartwarming -- and at times heartbreaking -- post- '' Juno '' road comedy for grownups . With Away We Go , Mendes has fallen through the rabbit hole and discovered connubial bliss . Feels like a welcome respite from the false happily-ever-afters of most mainstream movies . That every supporting character is depicted as insufferable or pitiable or both would be bad enough ; what 's worse is that the couple discover nothing about themselves that was n't obvious from the opening . By my count , two episodes succeed and half a dozen fall flat . Your mileage may vary . Krasinki is able to anchor the movie with a limber , melancholy performance -- and does n't draw too heavily from his overflowing reservoir of nice-guy charm . 	Built on a set of quirks and charms that are as noticeable as they are interchangeable , Away We Go is a sweet but uneven road trip .
from hell Seldom Scary . Jack the Ripper has proven a far more durable movie baddie than Freddy , Jason and Hannibal combined . Despite their bloody tomfoolery , the brothers opt out of slumming with cheap slasher movies by delivering extremely impressive production values , a Merchant-Ivory horror show digging into the guts of history . Somehow , the movie taps into the book 's uncanny implication that the very air is charged with malevolent ancient spirits ... Offers a fairly conscientious revision of the always sensationalist case of Jack the Ripper . Ties the story up in such neat knots that our darkest factory , the imagination , has no wiggle room at all . This is the rare contemporary whodunit that truly works . I completely lost interest in the final 20 minutes . Apart from its brilliant surface , 'From Hell ' is so ordinary a treatment of the Ripper story that it seems utterly superfluous . If you adore the truly ghoulish , it should amply entertain you . But try not to watch it before or after a big lasagna feed . 	Visually impressive , but this latest Ripper tale is dull and far from scary .
bringing out the dead It lacks substance and weight . Scorsese has given us a flashy picture show , nothing more . The auteur has definitely left his distinctive mark , but too seldom and too narrowly . Vidas al Lmite es ms que nada un buen ejercicio para Scorsese , ya que si bien no es de su mejores cintas , s contiene varias secuencias que son dignas de llamar la atencin Martin Scorsese is a wonderful filmmaker . And he loves New York . He is at his best , though , when he has an interesting story to tell . It 's the harsher images that stick in our minds , because Scorsese makes us feel like we 're seeing them first-hand . Visually stimulating but intellectually mediocre . Scorsese is never on autopilot , never panders , never sells out , always goes for broke ; to watch his films is to see a man risking his talent , not simply exercising it . Scorsese offers an assortment of dizzying camera tricks , some morbidly black humour and a great soundtrack to inject the film with frenetic energy , but it is an artificial construct . Scorsese has delivered a film that 's both savage and sorrowing . Bringing Out the Dead is a screaming siren of a film ! 	Stunning and compelling , Scorsese and Cage succeed at satisfying the audience .
poseidon Stay home , take a bath with a toy boat and create your own waves , instead . Despite solid visual effects and a few impressive , if incredulous action sequences ( Josh Lucas 's high dive into a fiery water pit is a dubious highlight ) , the movie mostly slogs along to its inevitable conclusion . Poseidon betrays a studio mindset that can only hasten the current erosion of movie attendance -- skimping on human content while betting heedlessly on boom boom boom and gurgle gurgle gurgle . Overall it 's slick , brainless entertainment , but brainless entertainment built on crushed and waterlogged corpses . I forsee a college drinking game that will require everyone to take a swig every time someone says something like , `` Do it or we DIE ! '' Poseidon is a great leveler of humanity : It renders everyone in the picture eminently disposable and everyone in the audience equally bankrupt for bearing witness . I cheered for the water . I hoped all the characters , especially Fergie , drowned . Poseidon re-introduces the disaster-movie genre to theaters , and they greet each other with a big , sloppy kiss ... There 's nothing hip or ironic about Poseidon , which makes Russell and Lucas the perfect leading men : jut-jawed , macho , and able to keep a straight face while being pinned by fake beams , and held hostage by page upon page of sappy dialogue . you start to realize that the capsized cruise liner onscreen is n't the only sinking ship . 	This remake of The Poseidon Adventure delivers dazzling special effects . Unfortunately , it does n't seem that any of the budget was left over to devote to the script .
11th hour For all its scare tactics , The 11th Hour simply is n't that compelling , and we 're talking about the end of the world here . The movie 's tagline is 'The Hope Is You ' , so if you leave the theater with a guilty conscience , the film has done its job . No matter what time it is in the grand , cosmic scheme of things , The 11th Hour arrives about a day late and an eco-dollar short of An Inconvenient Truth Debates over policy , resources , and money are and will be shaped by campaigns , images , and celebrities . The 11th Hour understands that , and makes its case accordingly . If Al Gore 's An Inconvenient Truth was a warning , The 11th Hour is the red alert . Seeming to cater to the ADD generation even as it tackles a subject of enormous scope , The 11th Hour does n't quite get the job done . The film 's eagerness to embrace alarmist speculation undermines the basic truths it tells . Challenges us to change our consciousness and transform our lives by living lightly on the Earth in harmony with nature ; offering a road map to a sustainable future , this is one of the most important documentaries of the year . The shadowy photography of the interviewees lends an ominous tone to nearly every scene , but what they 're saying is often pragmatic and helpful . As much as for what it says , the film is important for how it says it , in a manner that is easy to understand and hard to ignore . 	Well-researched and swimming in scientific data , this global warming documentary offers some practical and wide-ranging solutions to our climate crisis .
windtalkers ... a character-driven story like this should probably have spent more time on the characters and less time on pyrotechnics . One thing that should be taught in Film Criticism 101 is that a fascinating subject does not necessarily guarantee a fascinating movie -- and the new film Windtalkers would be an excellent case in point . In the wake of Saving Private Ryan , Black Hawk Down and We Were Soldiers , you are likely to be as heartily sick of mayhem as Cage 's war-weary marine . Is n't quite the equal of Woo 's best earlier work , but it 's easily his finest American film ... comes close to recapturing the brilliance of his Hong Kong films . film will hold your interest so let 's call it a weak B+ . At the end of the day , nothing particularly spectacular , especially when you consider the two men leading the project , director John Woo and actor Nicolas Cage . You 'd probably be better off reading Catch 22 - even if it is for the fifth time . . . The screenwriters struggle to integrate the coded transmissions with the action , and the flamboyant set piece battles feel like so much empty rhetoric . If military gore is your cup of tea , Woo does not disappoint . It is n't mine , however . Woo 's humanity is unmistakably ham-fisted . 	The action sequences are expertly staged . Windtalkers , however , sinks under too many clichs and only superficially touches upon the story of the code talkers .
1071167-twister The story is pretty thin , but the gee-whiz effects -- especially in an auditorium with good stereo sound -- are guaranteed to knock the audience for a loop . It looks real , and Director Jan De Bont keeps the action coming so fast there 's no time to question it . Ugh . Not even a passable popcorn pic , I 'm afraid . Hunt and Paxton play off each other well . We do n't learn a whole lot about their characters , but it 's impossible to not cheer for them anyway . When it sticks to kinetically portraying the sheer oddness of the tornadic phenomenon , Twister is a breeze . When it tries to recreate Hawks , it falls gracelessly from the green sky . An adrenalin-pumping thriller that leaves you with a deep respect for the terrifying power of nature . Enjoy every cow flying , tractor crashing frame . ( published 5-17-96 ) Surely the only movie to ever suggest a dumbed-down His Girl Friday , Road Runner cartoon , and The Abyss simultaneously Science aside , it 's not hard to feel that these excitable characters are a wee bit berserk . But the movie works as escapism even if you do know enough to come in out of the rain . About as much fun as watching a weather report . 	A high-concept blockbuster that emphasizes special effects over three-dimensional characters , Twister 's visceral thrills are often offset by the film 's generic plot .
united 93 It is a docudrama done with great sensitivity , and with unerring judgment in the writing and in the depiction of the passengers and hijackers . It 's a film for our time . A tasteful , shattering document of a grim day in American history . United 93 might be an insular response to a global tragedy , but -- taken on its own , limited terms -- it is powerful and sincere , giving reign to pity and fear without indulging jingoism or sentimentality . For that at least it deserves applause . The movie does n't cop out into cheap melodrama , never turning the hijackers into cardboard villains and never glorifying one passenger or crew member over the others . United 93 terrifyingly conveys the nature of the threat facing the world today and poignantly conveys onscreen the decision by a few brave individuals to fight back . Many people feel United 93 is `` too soon '' , and I certainly wo n't argue with anyone 's need for time to heal . But when it is n't too soon , this film demands to be seen . A powerful and engrossing account undiluted by the sentimentality that often mars Hollywood depictions of history . Intense , unflinching and well done . Unbeatable , visceral and memorable . 	Potent and sobering , United 93 is even more gut-wrenching because the outcome is already known . While difficult to watch , director Paul Greengrass ' film has been made with skill and treats the subject matter with respect , never resorting to the aggrandizement of which Hollywood has sometimes been accused . Especially effective is the cast of mostly unknown actors , who portray the passengers of the doomed flight as ordinary people who respond with bravery to extraordinary circumstances .
throne of blood Mifune was a primal force to be reckoned with , and in films like Throne of Blood , that animal instinct shone brightly . A potent adaptation that captures all the strange atmosphere of Shakespeare 's play , and invests it an exhilarating , visceral aesthetic . Transplanted to medieval Japan , Kurosawa 's brutal film is one of the best Shakesperean adaptations on screen , with a tour de force performance from Toshiro Mifune ; it makes a fascinating double bill with the masterful Ran Director Akira Kurosawa 's `` Throne of Blood '' has been widely hailed as a masterpiece , but it 's impossible to watch free from the shadow of his far superior film `` Ran . '' Throne Of Blood defeats categorisation . It remains a landmark of visual strength , permeated by a particularly Japanese sensibility , and is possibly the finest Shakespearean adaptation ever committed to the screen . Unavoidable consequence of human ambition . Kurosawa 's film ranks as a classic that holds up over the years for its tight construction and masterful cinematic technique One of the best Shakespearean film adaptations out there . One of Kurosawa 's best and arguably the best Shakespeare ever filmed . No stage production could match Kurosawa 's Birnam Wood , and , in his final framing of the hero -- a human hedgehog , stuck with arrows -- he conjures a tragedy not laden with grandeur but pierced , like a dream , by the absurd . 	A career high point for Akira Kurosawa -- and one of the best film adaptations of a Shakespeare play .
safety not guaranteed `` Safety Not Guaranteed '' not only has dialogue that 's about something , but characters who have some depth and dimension . Make no mistake -- Plaza is a real talent . Talented enough to deserve better material than Safety Not Guaranteed . Celebrates the idea of taking a chance and accepting the unexpected , in ways that are quietly funny . Movies with a voice as strong , strange , smart and yes , sincere as `` Safety Not Guaranteed '' deserve to be heard . A pleasantly ramshackle affair balanced uniquely between the crass and the sweet . A slight , wistful comedy that , at least up to the ambitious but unsatisfying final scenes , combines sci-fi and rom-com to pleasing effect . Safety Not Guaranteed is an original worth seeking out . It 's like this film almost sneaks up on you as you 're watching it . At first it 's just quirky/cute , but it becomes much more . Mark Duplass gives his best performance . An intriguing yet erratic effort ... The film is modest but skillful and heartfelt , spiced just so by Plaza and company . 	Safety Not Guaranteed 's ostensibly modest ambitions are outmatched by the movie 's strong performances , beguiling charm , and heartfelt story .
the grace card The latest in the market-a-movie-to-churches trend , `` The Grace Card '' has the ring of a sermon about it . The film is powerful when operating on the personal level of two men working out faith , but disappointing that their story is buried in a heavy-handed , manipulative plot . The filmmakers seem more interested in coddling the converted than ministering to sinners . A heartfelt and inspirational drama about the healing power of grace , reconciliation and forgiveness . `` The Grace Card '' is a Christian drama about a racist cop and his gospel-preaching partner who . . . hey , wait a second . Where are you going ? This effort from writer/director David G. Evans gets points for soft-peddling dogma in favor of human stories . And the film benefits from a compelling performance by Michael Joiner , a Kansas City-based stand-up comic who provides a watchable center . Its screenplay is mostly second-rate soap opera and its direction plodding , with many scenes held , awkwardly , longer than they need to be . Not up to the level of `` Facing the Giants '' or `` Fireproof '' but a pretty amazing first try ... not so much a bad movie as a timid one , in that it fails to fulfill the potential of its honestly not bad script , which raises some difficult questions ... and its denouement , however predictable , is genuinely moving . Movie goers likely will look over The Grace Card 's entertainment value to focus on this simple prescription for how to gracefully love your neighbor . 	Tailored for a very specific audience , The Grace Card delivers its noble religious message via implausible plot twists and preachy dialogue .
bonnie and clyde Warren Beatty hardly seems the desperado type , but Faye Dunaway is convincing in her role as his companion in robbery and murder . It should readily be apparent that there is something special about the production , with its brash , vivid style , indelible performances by movie icons , and bold mixture of violence and comedy , romance and tragedy . You 'll never root for the bad guys more than you will here . Modern crime classic directed by Arthur Penn w/Beatty , Dunaway Bonnie and Clyde ( 1967 ) is one of the sixties ' most talked-about , controversial crime/gangster films combining comedy , terror , love , and ferocious violence It is a cheap piece of bald-faced slapstick comedy that treats the hideous depredations of that sleazy , moronic pair as though they were as full of fun and frolic as the jazz-age cutups in Thoroughly Modern Millie . Funny and violent , knowing and chilling , this is the template that no lovers-on-the-lam movies has ever bettered . This film is worthy of the attention of anyone who 's interested in classic American cinema . So definitive in so many ways , Bonnie and Clyde has become a 20th-century touchstone . Freed from the production code that drove most of the old Warner Brothers gangster films of the 1930s and 40s , Arthur Penn gave Bonnie and Clyde a new kind of thrilling glee . 	A paradigm-shifting classic of American cinema , Bonnie and Clyde packs a punch whose power continues to reverberate through thrillers decades later .
titus Titus does no justice to Shakespeare . It 's all plot twists and shock tactics , without the poetry and resonance of Shakespeare 's later work . Captures the play 's ultraviolent essence . Taymor has succeeded only in creating a great - and interminable - filmic mess . Despite its nearly three-hour running time , there are few dead spots . Adds a wicked grin to the proceedings . ... si esperan una versin de Shakespeare `` alternativa '' busquen algo light , como Romeo+Julieta , el remake relativamente reciente , pues Titus no se anda con rodeos . Breathtaking cinema At once mesmerizing and jarring to the point that the audience can never get comfortable in the film . It 's like a bad Fellini parody on steroids -- and it 's two hours and 42 minutes long . 	The movie stretches too long to be entertaining despite a strong cast .
covenant Director Renny Harlin ( `` The Long Kiss Goodnight '' ) phones in this thoughtless teen horror flick from screenwriter J.S . Cardone ( `` The Forsaken '' ) . This sophomoric supernatural stinker could n't put a convincing spell on a disabled frog . The Covenant has all the intriguing mysticism of a bent magic wand . Limitless powers , and all we get are some spiders , some Blobs , and some supernatural hair gel . WB-style homoerotic teen escapism . The latest from a generation of filmmakers whose influence stems primarily from WB sitcom aesthetics and PlayStation videogame storylines , The Covenant falls into theaters like a fashion magazine adapted to the screen . It 's a horror film for the MTV generation , a horror film for the audience of `` Laguna Beach '' ... ... Covenant is devoid of any real scares . This supernatural story does n't muster much horror , much less tap into the thriller aspect . Rejoice : it 's a little like a cross between The Lost Boys and Zapped ! . Anyone with half a brain is not this movie 's target audience . 	The Covenant plays out like a teen soap opera , full of pretty faces , wooden acting , laughable dialogue , and little suspense .
sleep furiously The film has richness and an unshowy compassion , its grammar and pace adjusting to the tempo of the countryside . More a mood piece than a typical documentary , it takes time to acclimatise to Gideon Koppel 's quiet study of life in his mum 's Welsh village , but once you 're in there is much to enjoy . A certain polite withholding , even if it masks some firm conviction or desire , seems to be a coin of the realm in Trefeurig , so it may well be apt that Koppel often films in a register very close to this one . Sleep Furiously returns again and again to this idea of transition : seasons change , cows go out to pasture and come in for milking , piglets are born , lambs follow their mothers as dogs herd them . Farming traditions are dynamic . Even though it 's sometimes picturesque and involving , it 's also so achingly slow and indulgent that it will test even the most patient viewers . Great claims have been made for it , which I can not endorse , Koppel 's stated intentions being infinitely more arresting than the completed film . A paean to a way of life that , regardless of Dylan Thomas ' furious injunction , is going gently into that good night . This film is best taken as a visual ode to an all-but-forgotten way of life . Sleep Furiously may be the most beautifully elemental documentary film to have emerged in Britain in over a decade and I ca n't applaud it loudly enough . Ultimately , the first impression given - of a place both familiar and strange - is the only impression offered . It 's not enough . 	This poetic and tender portrait of a Welsh village is a slow moving yet elegantly accomplished British documentary .
10009355-sugar ... an immigrant 's song , a story about cultural dislocations and human connections that happens to be one of the year 's best movies . Put this one in the Win column . An authentic , timely `` immigrant experience '' tale about trying to score . Sugar is a gripping look at the immigrant experience , with small moments as important -- and visually arresting -- as any on the baseball diamond . Of course , calling a movie 'too humane ' is n't really all that much of a complaint ... While it 's interesting , it 's never truly absorbing . Algenis Perez Soto plays the character so openly , so naturally , that an interesting thing happens : Baseball is only the backdrop , not the subject . This is a wonderful film . Please understand that I am not praising `` Sugar '' just because some scenes were filmed here in the Quad-Cities . Sugar is a baseball movie in the way that Macbeth is a play about kilts . The description is accurate as far as it goes , but it does n't go nearly far enough . The final reel veers away from the sports movie formula - and the narrative loses some of its drive - yet there 's a believability about the twist . If anything , Sugar underlines the fact that this particular immigrant experiences is not all sweetness . 	Sugar is an exceptionally-crafted film -- part sports flick , part immigrant tale -- with touching and poignant drama highlighted by splendid performances .
terminator 2 judgment day Oh , it 's well made . It 's also overproduced and overlong and the ultimate in the effects-driven movie syndrome . Set the standard for modern Hollywood 's F/X-driven mega-productions and cemented James Cameron 's dystopian vision as modern science-fiction 's saga par excellence . Nobody , I think , will complain that it does n't have enough action . Cameron has done an honourable and undoubtedly skilful job of tailoring his new film to the tastes of the times without too much sloppy compromise . He 's made a science fiction film with verve , imagination and even a little wit . It 's less satisfying than the more idea-driven original , but this is still top-flight kick-ass entertainment . Arnold Schwarznegger is still the ultimate leathers-wearing , Harley-riding , lever-action shotgun-toting bad-*** Shamefully sadistic , achingly dull and totally predictable , it rehashes the far superior 1984 original . Best of all , though , the level of tension in the film is palpable because we can`t figure out how Arnold is going to terminate the Terminator . Structured as a simple chase , the story sags midway , but the first hour and last 30 minutes display an enjoyably relentless bravura . A true classic , though I still miss the grit and nuance of the original . 	T2 features thrilling action sequences and eye-popping visual effects , but what takes this sci-fi/ action landmark to the next level is the depth of the human ( and cyborg ) characters .
bad news bears Fans of the original will be amazed at how similar the two films are - the new version even makes the same extensive use of Bizet 's Carmen on the soundtrack . young teenagers might enjoy the mildly bad attitude and silly sequences , but adults will be bored Serviceable , but ultimately pointless because not a second of this remake tops anything in the original . Bears does n't measure up . Remake of 1976 comedy too raunchy . ... what should 've been a fun and breezy comedy is ultimately transformed into an incredibly tedious ordeal ... Appreciably funnier and more profane than its '70s-era ancestor . The spunkiness gets a bit crude but the team spirit remains , perennial as the crack of a bat on a summer day . Ainda que esquemtico , gera boas risadas graas dinmica entre Thornton e o elenco infantil . It is n't funny ; it is n't sweet , and it has none of the innocence of the original . Despite storytelling unevenness , its pervasive good nature and a bellyful of Thornton one-line zingers carries it pretty much out of the ballpark . 	This too-faithful remake aims low for laughs , turning off the easily offendable ; despite another lovably irascible contribution by Thornton , it lacks the ensemble strength and originality of the 1976 version .
1009096-hairspray A perfect mixture of old trashy Waters and a new kinder , gentler Waters . Thoroughly deserving of its cult status . One of the great films of the '80s and as close to perfect as Waters has gotten Controversial filmmaker John Waters finally hits his commercial stride in this film , parlaying his keen social observation and great compassion for society 's outsiders into a colorful and engaging comedy full of dancing , music and heartfelt nostalgia . The Waters film for your grandma , who will probably be only a little bit freaked out by it . A kitschy teen fantasy you can dance to . Lots of people who use hairspray tend to lay it on real thick . One spritz from the aerosol can is never enough . When Divine 's Edna Turnblad is on-screen in the sleeveless dresses she 's partial to , the movie has something like the lunacy of a W. C. Fields in drag . The world is coming to an end : cracks are forming in the Earth 's surface , mountain-sized chunks of ice are falling from the sky , John Waters has made a family film . A Zany delight ... ..Lake is outstanding ! 	Hairspray is perhaps John Waters ' most accessible film , and as such , it 's a gently subversive slice of retro hilarity .
beautiful country A tender and poignant cross-cultural tale of a young man 's search for his father with a finale filled with grace and love and humility . A poorly-written melodrama which at times borders on the tedious Some of the plotting borders on ludicrous , and newcomer Nguyen is pretty much charisma-free . While Damien Nguyen is more than capable as an actor , the character is a little dull , perhaps a bit one-sided . Beautiful country ia an emotionally compelling tale of an a young Vietnamese on an arduous journey from his homeland to Texas in search of his American father . `` The Beautiful Country '' touches on many thorny social issues about the way the world works , but it 's ultimately Binh 's story , a truthful and heartening one . It 's beautiful in its simplicity , exhibiting the kindness people are capable of and how profound that can be . A well-intentioned but not entirely successful blend of tragic melodrama , social-issue expose and compassionate portraiture ... Moland 's humanistic story about xenophobia , man 's persevering spirit , and life 's bitter ironies only stumbles during its final act . Norwegian director Hans Petter Moland tells this poignant story with a reserved , passive camera that occasionally tests the limits of viewing patience . 	The plight of Asian refugees is sensitively rendered , and the movie builds , with the help of Nolte , to a wrenchingly poignant conclusion .
edmond None of it rings true for even a NYC second . Fails to offer any insight into its main character 's motivations . A sex- and violence-filled romp that sprays David Mamet 's staccato dialogue like rubber bullets over the audience . It 's a wordy script and , in its own profane way , a beautiful one , but it 's the words that are n't said that are the most crucial . `` Edmond '' is beyond black comedy , it 's a comedy in almost total stygian darkness . A comedy where the laughs make you cough up razor blades . There is no actor more at ease with battered nerves than William H. Macy . Every moment of Edmond is extraordinary . Despite agreeably short running time and committed perfs , Edmond is rendered inert by its stagy atmosphere and failure to fully mine the depths of its protagonist 's complex psyche . There is no question about the inspired tragedy and incinerating fury of Mr. Macy 's bravura center-ring performance . ... the new film adaptation works as a tough , flavorful dark night of the soul , as a middle-aged drone finally has his moment of clarity , which looks a lot like madness . 	Despite an electrifying performance by William H. Macy , David Mamet 's one-act morality play translates poorly into a film that is overburdened by dialogue .
grudge match 2014 The underlying premise of Grudge Match is appealing , even if the execution is lackluster . The result is maybe more interesting than we might have expected , but it 's not particularly funny . The best thing about 'Grudge Match ' is the utter lack of lame old-timer jokes and - especially but especially - Viagra gags . Watching these two wrinkled , leathery grandfathers - who are way past their prime - strip to the waist , touch gloves and duke it out in a big showdown is not only callously cruel but also pathetic . There are plenty of jokes to be made about Grudge Match being `` down for the count '' or `` K.O . 'ed , '' but the sad lows this movie hits are n't a laughing matter for any of the stars involved . `` Raging Bull '' it ai n't -- it 's not even `` Rocky IV . '' [ An ] overlong , drab , not-so-funny sports comedy ... If there is a false note here it 's the young boy that plays De Niro 's grandson , He 's too precocious and cute to be a part of this family ! ... while it 's an occasionally funny film with good performances from its stars , it 's poorly and cheaply made . Not really a boxing movie for boxing aficionados , but there is a ghastly fascination for these 60 somethings behaving like 30 somethings and looking like weird somethings , each in their own way 	Grudge Match is sporadically funny but meandering , and its strong cast largely mired in a plot that 's overrun with clichs .
aquamarine JoJo ca n't act-act , and the same goes for everyone else in Aquamarine who is n't a dolphin . Only on DVD will the movie achieve its true destiny as the perfect slumber-party rental for 12-year-old girls . This film is entirely harmless . It 's utterly forgettable . If the target audience deserves a chance to hear the messages Aquamarine wants to share , does it not also deserve a movie that is n't merely a TV show at double the usual length ? Director Allen keeps the buoyant tone aloft at least until the third act , which gets a bit soggy in places , but she 's obviously got a terrific rapport with her young actors . Cross the Gidget flicks with a sudsy fish-out-of-water tale and -- poof -- you 'll get this 'tween fantasy , which only lands with a small splash . A filmy pool of tropes and tchotchkes stereotypically associated with Girls of Today . It 's a solid recommendation for young girls and those unfortunate parents trapped into chaperone duty . For everyone else , especially those possessing a Y chromosome , there 's not much of interest . But then , you were n't planning to see it anyway , were you ? Aquamarine really is just an adorable movie . And along the way , life lessons about love , friendship , adjusting to bad news and overcoming grief -- are passed along in a not-that-obvious fashion . It 's hopeful , it 's healthy , it squeals in all the right places and it offers proof positive that being stuck up is a bad thing . 	A lighthearted , gum-smacking , boy-crazy film with a hopeful message for young girls .
piano teacher Is like The Graduate remade by David Lynch ; it 's no picnic to watch , but you ca n't look away . Leaves viewers out in the cold and undermines some phenomenal performances . A powerful and outrageous film from Belgian director Michael Haneke , takes that stereotype and stands it on its head . What a waste of a perfect cast . A raw and unforgettable portrait of need and sexual repression . Once one experiences Mr. Haneke 's own sadistic tendencies toward his audience , one is left with a sour taste in one 's mouth , and little else . Subversive , meditative , clinical and poetic , The Piano Teacher is a daring work of genius . Haneke keeps us at arm 's length . Guided more by intellect than heart , his story flattens instead of sharpens . Huppert gives one of her greatest screen performances as Erika Kohut . ... a pretentious and ultimately empty examination of a sick and evil woman . 	Though it makes for rather unpleasant viewing , The Piano Teacher is a riveting and powerful psychosexual drama .
mamma mia A fun , crowd-pleasing alternative for an audience whose idea of entertainment runs more to infectious '70s pop ditties , spandex , sex-starved women of a certain age and bare-chested hunks than watching a caped sadist torturing criminals . Giddy , brainless fun . The cast of non professional singers , epitomized by the mediocre talents of Meryl Streep and Amanda Seyfried , disrespects ABBA 's melodic 1970 's music . What a shame . If you 're invited , you might as well enjoy yourself . Just do n't say I did n't warn you . And do n't you dare say I hate ABBA . Like a big gay Terminator , Mamma Mia ! will track down your cynicism and blast it into smithereens : it absolutely will not stop , ever , until you 're having fun . Likable , serviceable , and eminently danceable . Make that Grandma Mia ! Streep , Waters and Baranski basically ad-lib and keep just enough composure to pull through . I tapped my foot , I smiled , and I found myself undeniably amused . If that 's the kind of experience you 're looking for , and if you dig ABBA , this crazy , sloppy , mixed-up movie might just be for you . Haritomeno kai akros diaskedastiko panigyri elahistopoiimenis kinimatografikotitas , me aboli skinothesia periorismenis horografikis kai allis dimioyrgikotitas , se koyrastika kleisto optiko pedio ( logiko , gia na pantreyontai to miso stoyntiako plastiko yli 	This jukebox musical is full of fluffy fun but rough singing voices and a campy tone might not make you feel like `` You Can Dance '' the whole 90 minutes .
savages Smartly written , perfectly delivered dialogue , accompanied by a sunny , hopeful ending . The name of the movie is one of those insufferable cutesy puns ... but do n't let that deter you from a film that achieves the rare balance of being both hilarious and tragic . How unfortunate the film with none . The excellent natural performances by Linney and Hoffman , make this a special film ... . The frequent outbursts of comedy help alleviate a tone that 's appropriately muted and sad , and Jenkins should be credited for refusing to tack smiley-faces onto a tough , possibly lose-lose situation . The Savages not only boasts Oscar-worthy performances from Philip Seymour Hoffman and Laura Linney as a self-absorbed brother and sister , its attention to detail makes it sweetly funny and genuine . Jenkins fans looking for the irreverent humor of Slums need not apply . Tamara Jenkins has made a movie about something that lots of people are going through but nobody wants to deal with , not even in life , much less in entertainment . And she 's done it fearlessly , with the right mix of humor and horror . Linney and Hoffman deliver two more creatively textured performances in this story about the strain and comfort of family relationships . Walking precariously between real world gravitas and the far too isolated and idiosyncratic , The Savages is a wonderful premise undermined by some unnecessary pretense . 	Thanks to a tender , funny script from director Tamara Jenkins , and fine performances from Philip Seymour Hoffman and Laura Linney , this film delivers a nuanced , beautifully three-dimensional look at the struggles and comforts of family bonds .
avp2 That the first of many rote 'chest-burster ' shots occurs 15 seconds into the movie is but one indication of the latest instalment 's poverty of fresh shocks and rank air of desperation . I 'm left wondering why I felt like I was watching two different movies that never quite came together as a parallel arc beyond the clunky `` They 're all fighting personal wars '' motif ... The door is left open for another sequel ; if someone would kindly shut it and board it up , that would be much appreciated . Fans deserve better . It 's a Wonderful Life is no longer the most depressing Christmas movie ever made . Occasionally , the filmmakers reveal a cheeky willingness to upend genre conventions , particularly when bending the rules regarding who lives and who dies in this sort of pic . An uninventive , unexciting and ultimately ineffective follow-up ... We can only hope that the sub-title means that this moneymaking farce is finally over . i want more aliens fewer people ! What better way to celebrate Christ 's birth than watching two warring alien races kicking the holy hell out of each other ? At best the movie 's an unpretentious pile-up of B-movie clichs , but why `` Requiem '' ? Time to give it a rest now . 	The increased gore and violence over the first Alien vs . Predator ca n't excuse Requiem 's disorientating editing , excessively murky lighting , and lack of new ideas .
ill see you in my dreams It is a delight to see Danner in a lead role , and her character study bubbles with a relatable , melancholy feistiness bolstered by strong support ... '' I 'll See You in My Dreams '' is a small scale marvel . Danner 's even better on her own , as she honestly , even angrily , wrangles with not a paradox , per se , just the raw rub of life : that it sucks to be alone , and it 's scary to try not being alone . She 's exquisite . One of the year 's truly great surprises , it 's a film about growing older and taking new chances . Blythe Danner lands her best screen role in years as a retired widow who decides to dip a tentative toe into the dating pool in indie comedy I 'll See You in My Dreams . Reflections on the highs and lows in rites of passage , in this bittersweet tale channeling the female experience of aging . Along with the humorous when not harrowing cross-generational bonding that can awkwardly kick in . Humble drama works thanks to good characters and performances It 's an impressive piece of low-key filmmaking ... sweet , generous and sure to please , then surprise an audience that finds any old Marigold Hotel exotic . The tender magnetism of Blythe Danner turns an intelligent , sensitive story of love among the not so young into a work of art . A far cry from the Nancy Meyers rom-com promised by its trailer , Brett Haley 's directorial debut is a poignant if slight drama elevated by its impressive candor and by Blythe Danner 's radiant performance . Danner shines in scene after scene . 	I 'll See You in My Dreams would be worth watching even if Blythe Danner 's central performance was all it had going for it , but this thoughtful drama satisfies on multiple levels .
tokyo sonata Kurosawa 's relaxed pacing and lack of concern for explaining every last thing will be a welcome relief if you 've wearied of blockbusters ... For all its oddities , this movie does carry weight , and , with more than eight per cent of Americans out of work , the timing of its release here could not be more acute . The elements sound borrowed from American suburban melodrama , but the tone is cool and measured , with the distanced fascination of a nature show . Another of Kiyoshi Kurosawa 's chilling portraits of micro and macro alienation , a family drama as chillingly controlled and despondent as the horror films that gained him international recognition . With this sudden shift in genre and ambition , Kurosawa ends up delivering his best film yet . Kiyoshi Kurosawa switches gears from supernatural horror to poignant social satire . Although few families are likely to suffer the extreme fate of this one , the well-acted , sensitively told Tokyo Sonata hits home in this time of financial crisis . It 's a story with a universal resonance right now , but the Japanese setting of Tokyo Sonata lends it a unique perspective . `` Tokyo Sonata '' is partly brilliant and partly melodramatic soap opera . A touching and acerbic Japanese drama . 	J-Horror director Kiyoshi Kurosawa turns successfully to dramedy and gives a unique ( and specifically national ) perspective to the universal subjects of family and identity .
star wars A grand and glorious film that may well be the smash hit of 1977 , and certainly is the best movie of the year so far . If you want to see the movie that made mild diversion for ten-year-old boys the model of commercial filmmaking , ruling out nuanced characterization and emotions that last longer than 20 seconds , this is where to look . Lucas ' trilogy earned its place in eternity not for its mechanical precision , but for its intangible qualities of inspiration and wonder . One of those few films that you can expect to find in almost anyone 's collection . Puts most recent 'epic ' blockbuster mediocrities to shame . Simplemente , y hablando de la cinta : The Force will be with you , always . The wild ride that helped change the face of modern moviegoing , and is every bit as entertaining today as it was 20 years ago . It has shaped our imaginations , our inner worlds . The series may be over at last , but the Force will be with us always . The movie , modeled after old-fashioned Westerns and Joseph Campbell 's writings about mythology , also has a sweet innocence . [ Star Wars ] is the most elaborate , most expensive , most beautiful movie serial ever made . 	A legendarily expansive and ambitious start to the sci-fi saga , George Lucas opened our eyes to the possiblites of blockbuster filmmaking and things have never been the same .
billy elliot People who see it may feel like dancing out of the theater afterward . Go for it . Avoids the kind of cheap manipulation inherent in its underdog scenario , leavening its uplift with sober ( but never maudlin ) drama . the kid turn ( s ) electric when he turns his frustrations into an eclectic mix of ballet , interpretive dance , and tap dance Features such strong performances and original circumstances that even the most stalwart cynic will likely succumb to its charismatic charm . Immensely moving . Manages to thoroughly entertain , evoking laughter and tears . The movie pours on scenes ... so manipulative and phony ... that our response is unnecessary . A triumphal piece of stealth schmaltz . Even if the story is sometimes too sweet to be true , we go out of the theater feeling good . A charming , entertaining and enjoyable little film . 	Billy Elliot is a charming movie that can evoke both laughter and tears .
riding alone for thousands of miles Takakura gives a fine , touching performance , the kid is adorable , and the supporting characters , particularly Gou-ichi 's imperfect interpreter , Lingo ( Qiu Lin ) , add just the right amount of comic relief . Yeah , yeah . Cue the violin music . But also grab a tissue , because the film levels far more of an impact than you might expect . A father takes a spiritual journey from Japan to China to help mend a decades-long rift between himself and his dying son . The lessons learned en route are as profound as they are simple . The often stunningly raw landscapes and scenes of village life can not entirely make the film more than exotically accessible , although themes are spelled out , as if by translation . Chinese director Zhang Yimou and Japanese actor Ken Takakura pull off a heartwarming tale of love and forgiveness . There are many languages spoken in this world , but the one most prone to misinterpretation may be the one shared by fathers and sons . It 's a masterful little film , and , thanks to Zhang 's seasoned hands , it 's subtly heartfelt but never manipulative . From real-life opera singer Jianin to travel agent Lin Qiu and youngster Zhenbo Yang , the cast is the genuine article ... Zhang Yimou perfectly blends emotional real life drama and humorous charm to create another wondrous masterpiece . This is the most deeply moving film of the year , and certainly one of the best . 	Does n't reach the heights of Zhang Yimou 's best , but this is still a heartwarming tale of love and forgiveness from the acclaimed Chinese director .
last castle A problem drama suffering from a steroid overdose . Serves as an intense drama , an intelligent thriller , and an intriguing character study wrapped into a solidly constructed package . Running at a stealthy 2 hours in length , you ca n't help but look for the EXIT signs in the theater for a quick getaway . The scenes between Redford and Gandolfini crackle , because both play well against type . Although this film from the writer/ director of The Contender underlines every sentence and overemphasizes every camera setup , it has a certain schlocky appeal . The Last Castle will likely do very well at the box office , not because it is particulary good , but becuase , simply put , timing is everything . The movie 's poster advertises `` a castle can only have one king '' . That may be true , but how come this `` Last Castle '' has so many jesters ? Rod Lurie accomplishes the impossible by churning out a flag-waving action yarn even more ham-fisted than Pearl Harbor . A mundane and predictable amalgam of prison movie cliches and archetypes . A rousing , patriotic movie ; it 's a shame it is n't more believable . 	The Last Castle is well acted and rousing for the most part , but the story ca n't stand up to close scrutiny .
hop 2011 E.B . is brought to life by Brand , the CGI is seamlessly worked into the live action , and Hop is briskly paced . It 's entertaining enough but ultimately disposable . It could be worse . That 's not intended as praise -- just a sigh of mild relief . Hop ca n't even find anything funny to do with Kaley Cuoco . The LA antics are woefully familiar , and not helped by Marsden 's mugging . `` Hop '' feels less like an attempt to tell a story than an attempt to reach out to as many marketing demographics as possible . All in all , it 's hard to know for whom `` Hop '' is made . A miscast Russell Brand and some poor writing make the film nothing but a decent one time watch . Fulfills the `` Golden Hasselhoff '' rule , which holds that any work of `` art '' blessed with The Hoff 's presence is all the better for it . Adults will pretty much have to check their brains in at the door , sit back , and enjoy the popcorn and snacks . [ The film is ] infused with a demented , genuinely subversive spirit that comes straight from Russell Brand , who voices E.B . 	It 's impressively animated , but Hop 's script is so uninspired that not even James Marsden 's frantic mugging can give it any bounce .
life itself Life Itself is a film about living and dying well . It measures up to Ebert 's definition of cinema 's best possibility -- `` a machine that generates empathy '' -- and reveals , by the end , a man who became fully worthy of that ideal . I 'm calling it now : At next year 's Academy Awards , the Oscar for Best Documentary will go to Life Itself . Unlike Ebert , it tends to amble on past the punchline . But overall , a lovely portrait of an era in movies and newspapering and a man who loved both , with gust . Ebert 's passing was n't fortunate . But he was a shrewd film critic , and it 's not a stretch to say he 'd consider it a dramatic and thematic boon for the film itself . ... in the end , the fact that Ebert became an internationally known film critic proves to be the movie 's MacGuffin . What he did for a living fades to the background as examples of how he lived his life ... show us the true measure of the man . A film about a generous and open soul that is itself generous and open . A heartfelt tribute to one of the most famous and significant film critics of all time . You do n't have to give a damn about movie criticism to enjoy this movie . You may give a damn though once the lights come up . Both an unflinching document of the last days of film critic Roger Ebert 's life and a densely packed celebration of his career . Life Itself is , more than anything , a very loving document of a man who was loved . 	Rich in detail and warmly affectionate , Life Itself offers a joyful yet poignant tribute to a critical cinematic legacy .
el mariachi An endlessly inventive and charming zero-budget action movie . Rodriguez goes for broke with a breakneck pace , swarms of bullets , cinematic tricks , and a tone as playful as it is knowing of genre conventions . The director 's light touch is all his own ; and this unpretentious offering delivers in all departments . Brilliant low-budget filmmaking . Better than most action films with ten times the budget . Inspiring but misses a few cylinders A gripping , tautly-paced action flick that outdoes most of Hollywood 's similar output . The unrelenting tempo is bolstered by Rodriguez 's camera work and editing : nearly every frame seems to have been shot with a careening , handheld camera , and they 're cut together in a skillful , fluid fashion that enhances the tension and pace . Despite its age , El Mariachi holds up remarkably well . The film 's low budget ( roughly $ 7,000 , allegedly ) actually helps build tension in the narrative - like you 're watching something that 's really happening . Has tons more charm than its star-studded , big-budget reprise , Desperado . Arguably the most amazing film made in 1990s . It goes without saying that Mr. Rodriguez , having made such a clever and inventive debut , is prepared for a big future of his own . 	Made on a shoestring budget , El Mariachi 's story is not new . However , the movie has so much energy that it 's thoroughly enjoyable .
graduate Lovely Katharine Ross could n't be more appealing as the daughter . It 's smart , witty , and troubling all at the same time . Hoffman may be a trifle too old for the role , but the movie 's still amazing . A delightful , satirical comedy-drama . Having an unlikeable protagonist is fine if our sympathy and understanding are effectively directed elsewhere . The problem , then , is that I ca n't figure out where , or who , that might be . Be agog at Anne Bancroft 's Mrs. Robinson in some of the most hilariously icky seduction scenes ever filmed . See Mike Nichols ( with help from Simon & Garfunkel ) take control of the Zeitgeist . See the mood go dark -- darker than you remember . Rewatching The Graduate is a true time travel . Cruel comedy with a delicious light touch . Mike Nichols ' seminal film at once reflected the generation gap and also widened it , giving youths a clear voice , indigenous music , villains ( all adults ) , and a sympathtic anti-hero , played to perfection by Dustin Hoffman in a career-making turn . Here 's to you , Mrs Robinson . 	The music , the performances , the precision in capturing the post-college malaise -- The Graduate 's coming-of-age story is indeed one for the ages .
the selfish giant 2013 A powerful , often gruelling but supremely tender fable about two boys scrounging for scrap in Britain 's industrial wasteland . Inventive British filmmaker Barnard takes on Oscar Wilde 's children 's story with the same artistic creativity that made her previous film , the edgy drama-doc The Arbor , such a triumph . The Selfish Giant never feels predictable . Credit the remarkable young actors , as well as Barnard 's observant style : Every moment in this film is alive with possibility , with the chance that everything will go haywire in a new way . `` The Selfish Giant '' is a story of dependence , damage and desperation , told with grit and grimy frankness . It 's also a portrait of friendship born of need and emptiness , on the road to nowhere . This is a fine film , which cements Barnard 's growing reputation as one of Britain 's best film-makers . The first great fiction film to be released in 2014 , Clio Barnard 's second feature , `` The Selfish Giant , '' is breathtakingly assured , ruggedly beautiful , moving and justifiably tragic . Clio Barnard 's The Selfish Giant is n't the Oscar Wilde children 's story , but more an inspired take on it in the kitchen-sink style of a Ken Loach drama . The leads ( Conner Chapman and Shaun Thomas ) are terrific , so it 's a shame that the adults seem clichd . The Selfish Giant preaches compassion by showing us in its very closing moments , the fathomless goodness that can lie beneath even the spittingest , snarlingest exterior . Writer/director Clio Barnard makes her feature debut with a fable spawned from an Oscar Wilde children 's story but plays more like a pint sized `` Of Mice and Men . '' 	Starkly emotional and beautifully directed , The Selfish Giant uses a lovely script and some powerful performances to present some of the best that modern British cinema has to offer .
the hunting ground 2015 Though far from a perfect film , The Hunting Ground is a significant piece of advocacy journalism that shows young women refusing to be mute about crimes that have been commited against them . When and where your frustration and anger boil over while watching `` The Hunting Ground '' is an individual experience , one that will be different for everyone who sees it . The Hunting Ground explores its disturbing subject so thoroughly that the documentary feels more like a horror film - a slasher movie where the psyches of its young , smart victims are in tatters . As a call to action , `` The Hunting Ground '' truly goes to bat for rape survivors . As a documentary , the movie as a whole is much lesser than its individual parts . Important but devastating viewing . Ensures that no one can foolishly attribute this problem to a particular kind of person or institution . A hard-hitting and disturbing documentary about the treatment of women who have been sexually assaulted on U. S. College campuses . The Hunting Ground is , by its very nature , rough going for the viewer , but how else should it be ? Its message of hope is heartening . Yet , after watching this expertly constructed film , it 's hard to shake a lingering feeling of despair that any forthcoming change may only be temporary . The Hunting Ground is n't necessarily a great film-but it does n't need to be to work as powerful advocacy . 	The Hunting Ground is n't director Kirby Dick 's strongest work as a filmmaker , but the movie 's powerful message more than trumps any technical weaknesses .
water for elephants ... one of the best films I 've seen this year . Elephants may never forget but people can . Forget this one . Sara Gruen 's bestseller becomes good , old-fashioned entertainment on screen , although it 's not much of a love story . Pattinson and Witherspoon lack sparks . There 's no doubting the luscious detail and feel for the period , but the love triangle that inevitable kicks in is a little too rote , even for those in a forgiving mood . The main attraction - a doomed love triangle propping up the Big Top - pales in comparison to the sideshows and secondary acts coloring the fringe . [ Witherspoon and Pattinson ] are game , but the pulse between them approaches Dracula 's resting heart rate . The bad news for Pattinson is that it offers him nothing to do except play a more grown-up character , one whose dullness is amplified by the misfortune of having to share so much screen time with Christoph Waltz . There 's no strong chemistry between the usually charming Reese Witherspoon and her love interest Robert Pattinson . but the film offers other rewards The movie gives the viewer a taste of the nomadic existence for those lucky enough to be part of a traveling circus . It also touches upon the vernacular unique to circus folk ... There 's no real surprises here , but if you like this sort of thing , this romance under the big top , for what it is , gets the job done . 	It 's a tale tastefully told and beautifully filmed , but Water for Elephants suffers from a pronounced lack of chemistry between its leads .
larry crowne Pairing Tom Hanks with Julia Roberts gives rise to great expectations - which are dashed in this schmaltzy , mediocre romantic comedy . It wants to be a subtle , inspirational message to those undergoing tough times . Even his name - half schmucky , half regal-ish - shows that second chances really happen ! ( Just ask Lonnie Millionbucks and Jerry Diamonde ) . The upshot ? Meh . You 'd have to be in a really bad mood to be put off by this picture 's admittedly kind of unabashed eagerness to please . You can tell they like each other as movie-star-buddies , they 're relaxed , unshowy and inviting , but there 's not one moment where you get the idea that naked sex activities are on anyone 's agenda . Ringing true fairly consistently and lingering afterwards even in its lightness , the film does n't have to try to please . It just does . There 's some cute stuff involving Hanks and some teenagers who tool around campus on scooters , but an utter lack of chemistry between him and Roberts dooms the movie . This toothless romantic comedy is sweet and it has its moments , but its demands on suspension of disbelief eventually crush it . Larry Crowne is more than a missed opportunity . It 's alarmingly , depressingly out of touch . Mild comedy rules 'Crowne ' Next semester , the stars should drop Speech 217 and enroll in Chemistry 101 -- they dearly need some . 	Despite the relaxed , easy chemistry of stars Tom Hanks and Julia Roberts , Larry Crowne is surprisingly bland and conventional .
for a few dollars more By introducing the character of Mortimer , Leone is able to counterpoint Eastwood 's cold , amoral gunslinger with a man who has a past and a purpose . A tremendously good sequel , on top of being a tremendously good movie in and of itself - surely the best Italian Western at the time of its release . Clint Eastwood , just as the spagetti western schtick was beginning to get old . Here is a gloriously greasy , sweaty , hairy , bloody and violent Western . It is delicious . A delicious second helping of Clint & Sergio ! Most fans pick The Good , The Bad , and The Ugly as the stand-out , but I really like this one best . One excellent western . Underrated . Leone 's artful editing of close-ups to communicate the characters ' spatial relationships is always a pleasure . Clint 's spaghetti oater # 2 has its stylistic , no-name moments . 	With Clint Eastwood in the lead , Ennio Morricone on the score , and Sergio Leone 's stylish direction , For a Few Dollars More earns its recognition as a genre classic .
1189629-the great buck howard Ostensibly about nostalgia for a vaudeville breed of entertainer that was never very good to begin with , `` The Great Buck Howard '' does n't know whether to mock or celebrate its tragic protagonist . A pleasant variation on a very familiar theme Boasts a radiant comedic performance by John Malkovich and a breezy , sporadically hilarious plot that increasingly becomes a lazy , contrived and uneven satire with not enough bite . I wish there were more movies like Buck Howard ; simply effortless and earnest . Is n't exactly subtle . But the film is too genial not to enjoy . Like the has-been it celebrates , this gentle comedy wears out its welcome by embracing mediocrity . A wonderfully refreshing and original film ; this may be John Malkovich 's best role and performance , maybe of his career . I really enjoyed this film . The film is funny and perceptive in the way it shows the humiliations for a man with Buck 's tender vanity . Audiences crave the mental comfort food of an accessible good time , and Buck Howard is an affectionate ode to the kind of performer who provides just that . 	By turns fluffy and biting , this show biz comedy is given girth by comic heavyweight John Malkovich and made all the more charming by Emily Blunt .
cats meow Primarily works as a reminder that Bogdanovich , who has n't made a feature film since 1993 , is still very much a force as a director -- and as another signal of Dunst 's astonishing talent . Well-cast , smartly directed and mounted , it 's built upon an intriguing piece of Hollywood lore . Kept afloat by the energetic performance of Kirsten Dunst . It 's pretty linear and only makeup-deep , but Bogdanovich ties it together with efficiency and an affection for the period . Contains the same kind of intelligent class observation that was featured in Gosford Park . The potential of this pure Hollywood Babylon story remains unrealised , instead playing out as half-baked Agatha Christie . Splendidly acted , decadent drama -- a must for all fans of Hollywood scandal and a welcome return to form for Peter Bogdanovich . Bogdanovich adds touches to appeal to serious film fans . Most film directors dream about making their Citizen Kane '' ... Peter Bogdanovich has found a way to do the next best thing . A reasonably good yarn . 	The Cat 's Meow is a deliciously evoked period piece and whodunit .
1112617-new guy This is a truly awful movie , made from one of the worst scripts in memory . The New Guy has been on the shelf for more than a year , and it 's clear the reason for the long wait was n't perfectionism . More likely , it was embarrassment . The type of dumbed-down exercise in stereotypes that gives the [ teen comedy ] genre a bad name . Lame , haphazard teen comedy . Qualls moves his marionette body around with a true clown 's effervescence , and he does rubber-faced parodies of youth cool that are just what youth cool deserves . Despite the endearing presence of DJ Qualls , this feeble farce scrapes the bottom of the gross-out barrel with pitiful results . What begins as a potentially subversive take on the inner-city school problem becomes the unlikely film that would be better with more Eddie Griffin . An occasional one-liner rises to the level of near-wit ... Most everything else ranges from routine to heavy-handed . Every bad cliche of every bad high school movie finds a home here . I feel sorry for all of the people who will get suckered into sitting through this rancid mess this week . For a jaunt into teen exploitation , The New Guy is as aggressively unfunny as they come . 	Incoherent , silly , and unoriginal , The New Guy offers up the same old teen gross-out comedy cliches .
sum of all fears Realizando um bom trabalho ao condensar o complexo livro de Clancy , o filme tenso , inteligente e conta com fortes atuaes de todo o elenco - inclusive de Affleck , que confere uma curiosa vulnerabilidade ao heri . All that moviemaking money , plus all those gadgets , plus Ben Affleck : It does n't add up to very much . Taken outside the context of the current political climate ( see : terrorists are more evil than ever ! ) , The Sum of All Fears is simply a well-made and satisfying thriller . You can fire a torpedo through some of Clancy 's holes , and the scripters do n't deserve any Oscars . But the nerve-raked acting , the crackle of lines , the impressive stagings of hardware , make for some robust and scary entertainment . A middlebrow hybrid that should satisfy most fans of spy movies without blowing them away . Compelling filmmaking at its best . It 's all fast and loud and pulse-pounding , of course , but nothing that we have n't seen dozens of times on screen after imaginary disasters . It 's the kind of empty Hollywood film that has been made since the onset of films . Is Ben Affleck such an indispensable talent -- or box-office draw -- that his presence is worth wrecking an entire film franchise to accomodate his youth ? I am still scratching my head at the callowness of the film 's hero and at the haziness of the terrorist objective . 	A slick and well-made thriller that takes on new weight due to the current political climate .
speed 2 cruise control There went two hours of my life that I shall never see again . Sandra Bullock is as winning as usual and Willem Dafoe has great fun chewing up the scenery as the villain . Unfortunately , there 's not much chemistry between Bullock and Patric , so the love story does n't work . In Speed 2 , De Bont is , so to speak , at sea . The fact that the rescue process inadvertently kills off more people than it saves tends to lessen the tension by utterly devaluing human life . Speed 2 can be numbered among the worst second chapters ever made . Incredible ineptitude , a terminally shaky camera and plotholes you could drive the universe through . Speed 2 does n't have much in mind besides convincing an audience that a runaway ocean liner is a dynamic menace . Fine , but it does n't beat a runaway bus . [ It ] sinks faster than a rock . This time I found myself contemplating how far into a bay a huge cruise ship could actually go before it ran aground in the sand , instead of watching De Bont 's plot unfold . A complete waste of time . 	Speed 2 falls far short of its predecessor , thanks to laughable dialogue , thin characterization , unsurprisingly familiar plot devices , and action sequences that fail to generate any excitement .
matrix ... every movement in front of the camera looks choreographed , right down to the blinking eyes and shimmering light . The Matrix serves up so much visual wizardry and thought-provoking ideas that even the inevitable Silver touch -- a finale with more bullets than the opening of Saving Private Ryan -- ca n't destroy the magic . A surreal , icky , post-apocalyptic cyberpunk hacker mind-trip of a movie . An ambitious , perception-bending metaphor for life at the end of the 20th century . It does n't always make sense , but it seems to make sense , which is the key thing in science fiction . What makes the film weirdly compelling is the sheer audacity of its screenplay . It 's that balance between blockbuster-style action sequences and in-depth philosophical undertones that I 've always admired about The Matrix . It 's probably the best looking movie I 've ever seen . It 's astonishing that so much money , talent , technical expertise and visual imagination can be put in the service of something so stupid . A movie so visually enthralling , so exciting and so elaborate that it deserves nothing short of universal acclaim . It 's lavish , fascinating , beautiful , magnificently written , well directed , and effectively executed in every way . Who would have thought that a Keanu Reeves movie could be intellectually as well as visually satisfying ? 	Thanks to the Wachowskis ' imaginative vision , The Matrix is a smartly crafted combination of spectacular action and groundbreaking special effects .
sanjuro Rather than simply repeating the successful formula of Yojimbo , which incorporated humor but largely played it straight , Sanjuro flips the script for a largely comic action picture punctuated by a dark , rug-yanking conclusion . [ Blu-ray ] A surprising , fetching , beautifully made film that fitly propounds the lesson of his own professionalism : 'Never send a boy to do a man 's work . ' Short and sweet . If you have n't seen Yojimbo , go rent that before this . If you have n't seen Seven Samurai , go rent that before Yojimbo . And once you 've done those two , graduate to Sanjuro . Kurosawa was pressured by his producers into directing this sequel to Yojimbo , and rose to the occasion by making his funniest and least overtly didactic film A step down from the superior Yojimbo , but still enjoyable thanks to Toshiro Mifune 's scruffy rogue . Satirical Samurai action of the highest order . This is fun but , compared with Kurosawa 's other 60s efforts , relatively slight . A simple and highly effective action-comedy , with an outstanding performance from Mifune and an unforgettable finale . Technically , the film is one of Kurosawa 's most impressive , featuring some superbly staged sword battles and exceptional use of complex widescreen compositions . Mifune 's smashing performance is the force that makes it all work so well . 	Technically impressive and superbly acted , Sanjuro is a funny , action-packed samurai adventure featuring outstanding cinematography and a charismatic performance from Toshiro Mifune .
in the loop The worse politics gets for the constituency the better it gets for the comedians . A political roast of unprecedented accuracy and intensity and a comedic dream . A devastating insight into the desperate state of functionaries in a technocracy . Who can resist using the nastieth filth in the English language to run a country ? Instead of inspiring geniuses , Iraq war backlash has only resulted in snarky self-righteousness that -- from Charlie Wilson 's War and now British import In the Loop -- has demonstrated the low ebb of modern comedy . One of the funniest and most quotable films likely to hit cinemas this year . If the corridors of power really are this dysfunctional , let 's at least hope they 're this funny , too . A fantastic cast , a razor sharp script and an all too realistic story makes this an absolute must see . As fine and hilarious a political comedy as any we 've had in a generation . The first thing that marks In The Loop as a break from the norm is its refusal to flatter the viewer 's intelligence ; the second , is the way the film forces them to use it . Unfailingly witty in its speculation that international aggression is n't driven by mania as much as facilitated by banality . 	In the Loop is an uncommonly funny political satire that blends Dr. Strangelove with Spinal Tap for the Iraq war era .
what maisie knew 2012 Wrenching drama about child custody can spark discussion . The film 's simple strategy of filming always from Maisie 's height whenever she is present works amazingly well , an object lesson in how point of view can be what matters most . Since moving into domestic subjects , their ( Scott McGehee and David Siegel 's ) footing has been less sure , and you 'll resent What Maisie Knew 's tidy conclusion . My main reservation about this film is that it is so heavy handed . But I hasten to extract the wonderful young Onata Aprile from that observation ; beautifully directed and photographed , Aprile is so good as to make us question if she is acting One might compare 'What Maisie Knew ' to 'Kramer vs . Kramer . ' This is the better film , more subtle and less manipulative . Onata Aprile 's short career should blossom as people react to her subtle performance here . Intimate , unnerving and entirely addictive . [ Onata Aprile 's ] tremendously-believable on-screen spirit reminds us how resilient children can be . McGehee and Siegel -- as well as the adult cast -- are to be commended for keeping the film 's depiction of marital strife from falling into melodrama and goopy sentimentality . This is exactly the kind of film that David and I live to write about . A true team effort -- - great writing , directing and acting . 	It 's undeniably difficult to watch at times , but What Maisie Knew ultimately rises on the strength of its solidly sourced script , powerful performances , and empathetic direction .
descent The Descent is the genuine article , a bloody good creep fest . . . At its most powerful ( and evil ) , it lets viewers feel like they 're being buried alive . Where the film exceeds 'Dog Soldiers ' is toward the end , as Sarah comes to grips with what it will take to survive her ordeal and gets in touch with her feral side . Symbolizes a return to horror-movie basics . Marshall may not have made the deep-dish horror flick he perhaps thought he was , but he has managed to pull off a splattery last act that 's all anyone could hope for . Every theater should come with a sign : Your expectations must be this low to ride . ... The Descent may not be everything you 've heard , but man , it 's also a lot of things you have n't . Six sexy spelunkers in an underground fright fest make for keen and claustrophobic cinema . The Descent is horror in its most evolved state , descending the viewer into the darkest pits of terror . A nifty little horror item . 	Deft direction and strong performances from its all-female cast guide The Descent , a riveting , claustrophobic horror film .
deja vu Not a thing about this story withstands two second 's worth of scrutiny . While not as nasty as Man on Fired , Scott 's apparently indestructable dreadfulness is in full display in Deja Vu . Time-travel gimmick aside , the title is apt , because it feels like we 've seen all of this before . Disappointing . Just a middle-grade action-adventure with pretensions and serious script problems . If it is n't the brilliant film it could have been , Dj Vu still contains enough flashes of that film to make it entertaining while you 're watching it . It 's Denzel himself , ambling through the nonsense with just the right degree of twinkling insouciance , who keeps you watching . Good fun . Give Deja Vu enormous credit for solving the main problem that has afflicted time-travel movies for decades ; the most recent entry in the rewriting-reality genre is tense , well-acted and smart . The movie 's biggest charm is its unpredictable , offbeat tone . The usually enjoyable time-travel paradoxes about how changing the past would affect the present coming off as more annoying intrusions than anything else . A quirk-filled , paranoid , blood-and-sweat thriller that offers perfect pulse-racing escape for a holiday weekend . 	Tony Scott tries to combine action , science fiction , romance , and explosions into one movie , but the time travel conceit might be too preposterous and the action falls apart under scrutiny .
two brothers There is a lot in Two Brothers I admire . Families will not go wrong in attending this film . Some kids will think it 's one of the best movies they 've seen . My objections are of a sort that wo n't occur , I realize , to many of the viewers . It 's that rare kind of comedy -- simple humor based on personalities , behavior , and folly ... . rather than forced through crass punchlines or annoying sidekicks . There 's something awfully disturbing about Two Brothers , and it 's not the fact that Guy Pearce is in it . Annaud 's skill and subtlety elevate what is basically a fable-like throwback to the sort of live-action features Disney made in the 50s ... so far the year 's best family film . If you 've seen Annaud 's 1989 film The Bear , you 'll know what to expect . An enjoyable , Kipling-esque adventure . Returning to the territory of his 1989 hit The Bear , Jean-Jacques Annaud delivers another refreshingly mature fable of bestial devotion . The very definition of harmless , watchable entertainment . Exactly whether or not that is good enough depends on who you are . An extraordinary film about two wild tigers and the human beings who are changed irreparably by their encounters with these magnificent and mysterious creatures . Anyone older than 12 can figure out what 's going to happen , but the movie still packs an emotional punch that will keep adults entertained as much as the young ones . 	A charming family-friendly movie with stunning cinematography .
the son 2003 The simple but persuasive social drama at some point grabs your attention and never lets go . Reminiscent of a finely crafted short story that , through an economy of means and meticulous attention to detail , builds nicely to a climax that produces a singular emotional effect on an observer . One waits for closure , and instead there is the slowly unfolding revelation of a man torn between rage at the loss of his son , and the unspoken desire , welling up like a long-suppressed groan , to become a father again . Spends more time than you 'd want chasing a master carpenter around a trade school for reasons that are n't clear until undercurrents you barely knew were there erupt in one heart-pounding scene . The Son presents an astonishingly simple story told with power and restraint ; the film does n't even use a hint of a musical score . A masterfully rough-hewn piece of work -- it has the unmediated feel of a single , sustained scene . A gentle warning that in a world guided by an eye for an eye , everyone ends up blind . Fails to provide enough tension to draw us into what , at first , seems a properly chilling crime drama . The Son will dazzle you if you patiently think it through and discuss it . The effort you put into it will determine how much it rewards you in the end . The Dardenne brothers focus obsessively on physical and material details , thereby imbuing objects and actions with a spiritual significance . 	Austere , finely crafted , and compelling .
majestic There are a lot of problems -- most generic , tired ones -- with The Majestic , but it also overflows with genuine joy . Purposely painted with classic Hollywood movie form and color , this dramatically uneven production has its moments -- and they are not all Carrey 's . A warm and loving ode to the magic of film and the golden age of movie making . A decent picture that you really want to like , but that unfortunately does n't come close to matching the director 's previous efforts . This is n't a great picture by any means , but it 's ... very good . Despite Carrey 's best efforts and those of fetching newcomer Laurie Holden , Frank Darabont 's film is an interminable , smothering tableau of Norman Rockwell pieties . ... totally harmless and inoffensive , a sweet , gentle fable ... . It is also totally humdrum , stereotyped , clichd , and , dare I say it , often boring . Lazy , heavy-handed nostalgia . One of those movies that makes you feel as if the national IQ was dropping while you 're watching it . It tells a full story with three acts , it introduces characters we get to know and care about , and it has something it passionately wants to say . 	Ponderous and overlong , The Majestic drowns in forced sentimentality and resembles a mish-mash of other , better films .
in the company of men LaBute directs this low-budget film with such spareness and precision , using such minimal yet effective backdrops , that in retrospect his color film almost seems to have been in black and white . Its ideas are that stark . A provocative dissection of human dynamics , Men might just become the got ta -see-it August choice of adventurous filmgoers . This is a fully realized movie , whose intelligence -- despite its grim findings -- dwarfs any Hollywood production . It 's a film to admire -- even if it leaves you cold . Interesting , original premise starts off with a slow burn , but eventually challenges you into watching the screen without a cringe . The strength of this uncomfortable yet irresistable film lies in its writing , with the performances a close second . In the Company of Men is a singularly unpleasant movie . And from the point that Chad and Howard settle on Christine , it 's an increasingly unbelievable one , too . It 's a creepy piece of work that gets under your skin , ruffles your sensibilities and just wo n't leave you alone . LaBute 's film is not easy to watch , deal with or understand . But its effect is unmistakable . Brilliant black comedy - razor sharp , unapologetic stuff . The acting is superlative , and the imaginative script has minimalist cadence la David Mamet . The result is at once devastating and compelling . 	Neil LaBute 's pitch-black comedy is a masterful exploration of male insecurity , and it 's elevated by a breakout performance by Aaron Eckhart as a businessman who likes to play psychological games .
ghosts of the abyss Not educational in any real sense , but if you get past the annoyance of the 3-D glasses , it 's a fascinating glimpse at an awesome part of world history . Documentary dramatizations usually are awful , but in Ghosts of the Abyss , they work . A great moviegoing experience that you can almost reach out and touch . Generally , documentaries are n't known for dramatic moments , yet the tension is palpable as an anxious Bill Paxton sinks two and a half miles to the bottom of the sea . Rivaling only George Lucas as Hollywood 's reigning tech-obsessed gadget wizard , Cameron ( who is never introduced , he 's just there ) seems pretty fascinated by this stuff , but as a filmmaker he has a hard time letting anybody else in on the appeal . One of the rare Imax movies in which the 3-D effects are completely melded into the picture , rather than simply used as a gimmick . Fascinating as only disasters can be . It 's frustrating that Cameron could n't make a proper documentary , because the footage is astonishingly beautiful , the subject matter is compelling and the timing is eerily relevant . [ Cameron 's ] fascination and passion exudes from Ghosts . If you 've seen one rusticle-encrusted antique armoire , you 've seen 'em all . 	The underwater footage is both beautiful and awe-inspiring .
roll bounce The end of the dismal summer movie season could n't have been blessed with a more satisfying coda than the rollicking , funny , relentlessly cheery and genuinely touching spirit that makes Roll Bounce a captivating delight from start to finish . A portrait of a neighborhood where families are hurting , healing and helping each other . The well-blended mix of music , humor , 70s swagger and poignancy allows `` Roll Bounce '' to stand out . Fun and touching . It will remind you what it was like to be a teenager during the last few days of summer . And even though the plot is a little thin , you probably wo n't even notice until long after the music stops . Mostly , Roll Bounce provides relatively wholesome family entertainment . And for parents of a certain age , it offers a nice trip down memory lane . At least for those who can stand those memories of themselves wearing all that polyester . Affectionate retro fun that coasts on soul sounds of the '70s and Cosby Kids-styled camaraderie . An evocative coming of age story that is sweet , funny , touching , and completely genuine . And it has a superbly selected soundtrack of 70 's gems . This is the 40th `` skating movie '' to hit the screens since Charlie Chaplin 's The Rink ( 1915 ) . It is neither the best nor the worst of them - skater dudes may think its cool , but 25 years ago there was the much maligned Xanadu with ELO , ONJ and ( sigh ! ) stil Roll Bounce puts fresh spins on both the traditional family drama and a distinctive era of American pop culture . Did I ever have fun at `` Roll Bounce ! '' 	Roll Bounce dazzles us with a classic late 1970 's feel , but this coming of age film could have been more than just a spin around the roller rink .
mean creek Bullies are people too ! The poignant story represents its players ' vulnerabilities with swift and clean lines . ... a movie about moral choices , about learning what it is to be decent in the world . This morality tale takes its time -- almost too much -- setting up characters and relationships , but an undercurrent of suspense and impending doom keeps this Creek on course . There is n't a one-note character in the mix , and they respond with haunting , subtle performances that feel utterly natural and unaffected . Yet another small gem from the strong Sundance class of 2004 , Mean Creek mines credible drama from teenage revenge fantasies . A beautifully filmed and frequently stirring drama . The nuanced performances , well-used locations and sensitive script set it far above the typical Hollywood teen flick . There are all sorts of other themes at work below the surface , including examinations of teenage peer pressure and moral responsibility . In its simple portrait of a bully Mean Creek may be one of the most political and socially conscious films of the year . 	Mean Creek is an uncomfortably riveting glimpse into the casual cruelty of youth .
pierrepoint the last hangman As this sad , shambling antihero swings from one pole to the other on the issue of capital punishment , you are inclined to follow every step of the way toward his tragic enlightenment . Pierrepoint turns a morbid subject into a fascinating case study of the last official prison executioner in England . The result is both a balanced , carefully researched film and a thoughtful , reflective treatise on capital punishment . Spall is more than worthy of future leading roles . Handsomely crafted and well-acted , but its sense of scale is as constricted as a noose . Handles capitol punishment in a similar way that `` Vera Drake '' tackled the abortion issue ... allows Timothy Spall 's resplendent dramatic chops to shine . This recounting of Pierrepoint 's rise and fall proves mostly a schematic message movie . There 's also strong support from Juliet Stevenson and ... Claire Keelan , who stands out in a small role as , well , a tart . An emotionally powerful drama about the dirty business of capital punishment . Shergold ca n't quite pull off tricky balancing act between understated working-class poetic miserablism , in the manner of acknowledged exemplar Vera Drake , and an issue-based melodrama 's demands for a flashy third-act . Pierrepoint is worth seeing for Shergold 's attention to process and for all the ghoulish details . 	Director Adrian Shergold does n't shy away from the darker elements of the movie 's subject , and Timothy Spall is mesmerizing as the title character .
lookout A professional script professionally shot , rather than a personal story burning to be told There 's nothing here you have n't seen before , and even the pleasant hum of a well-tuned engine begins to drone a little . I left the theater entertained but not fully satisfied . Sadder than most crime sagas , The Lookout is less about the crime than a guy trying to keep his wits when his brain only slows him down . Gordon-Levitt 's worth the admission all by his lonesome . He 's that good - the proverbial young man with an old soul who brings unexpected depth , complexity , and sincerity to what could have been just another damaged-guy role . He 's the one to look out for . The Lookout has its share of dramatic trickery and often strays into the gimmick boundaries . Nevertheless , Frank 's nifty narrative is keenly smart , perceptive and edgy . The idea is intriguing , and the performances excellent , although lead Gordon-Levitt ( Brick ) is for once outshone by his co-stars . You 've got to acknowledge Memento though ... Perhaps this is more accurate about a real condition and its symptoms but it 's still a mystery about unreliable memories , only here the protagonist uses them for good and not evil . Gordon-Levitt is superb as the damaged boy . It 's an acutely observed and genuine-feeling performance , free of the usual tics and winces actors supply when called on to play the thwarted and lame . Chris ' larger problem has less to do with what he ca n't do If you enjoyed any of [ writer-director Scott ] Frank 's previous work , or thought Brick was the bomb , you 'll love this . 	The Lookout is a genuinely suspenseful and affecting noir due to the great ensemble cast and their complex , realistic characters .
iron giant It 's very serious without ever being overwrought , and it 's visually lush . The Iron Giant marks a breakthrough in that neverland between computer and cel animation -- seamlessly blending a computer-generated character with the warmth of hand-drawn co-stars . What the animators lack in new computer-drawn technique , they creatively make up for with a fine artistic sense . One of the better non-Disney family animated features to come out in years , with engaging characters and a solid story line . This is a film the whole family can enjoy - and talk about afterward . The Iron Giant is a solid , not to say ironclad , winner in the less than overcrowded family animation arena . A lovely and touching daydream . A genuine and impressive pleasure . Through Hogarth 's words and the gentle giant 's self-sacrificing heroism it proclaims `` Guns kill . '' Now there 's a slogan you do n't see or hear much about at the movies ! One of the best pictures of 1999 . 	The endearing Iron Giant tackles ambitious topics and complex human relationships with a steady hand and beautifully animated direction from Brad Bird .
lock stock and two smoking barrels Fast-paced romp has violence , gangsters , drugs . Even when the violence gets out of control , as bad as 'a bad day in Bosnia , ' there 's an underlying level of wit and humor . Even when the accents are as indecipherable as the plot , Ritchie keeps the action percolating and the humor on high . Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels is a movie with absolutely nothing to say . If only it could have resisted revelry in its own style and violence , it might have been one 1999 's best films , due to its performances and clever plot twists . A clever , complex , and comic caper that takes its share of unexpected twists and turns . The cast is revved up to sizzle , with Sting in a smallish role , and the thick cockney dialogue is more comprehensible than you might think . Ritchie orchestrates the plots and anti-plots with the delight of a sadistic child ; by the end of this film , his career shows signs of smoking . Entertaining because of its intricate plot , kinetic editing and imaginative camera angles . What starts out as a hodgepodge of Pulp Fiction , Trainspotting and Reservoir Dogs slowly becomes as enjoyable and visually stylish as the films from which Lock , Stock draws its comparisons . 	Lock , Stock , and Two Smoking Barrels is a grimy , twisted , and funny twist on the Tarantino hip gangster formula .
10008678-wild child The movie falls apart when it tries to explain why Poppy 's been sent to this school . And the Spartacus moment at her school `` trial '' for misconduct is so cringe-worthy you want to die . The sort of film that real too-cool-for-school teens would n't be seen dead watching , Wild Child is aimed at those younger than its protagonists . Loud and obnoxious , like its lead character , it deserves to be expelled . WILD ? More like mild , unless you think short skirts and `` horse face '' put-downs are outrageous . Shame on Iggy Pop for letting them ( ab ) use his anarchy-anthem 'Real Wild Child ' in a girls'-own flick that is so paltry it makes the recent St Trinians addition look like Picnic At Hanging Rock . A slight but tart teen comedy , Child carries some surprising bite , subverting the norm with a fine British cast helping to sell the pixy stick fantasy , buttressed by Roberts 's refreshing angry streak . Mildly entertaining and utterly innocuous ... Bright and silly , with just enough wit and intelligence to make it watchable , this British-American teen comedy does n't break much new ground , but is pretty entertaining while it lasts . It may be manna for teen girls but any kind of critical eye will find it about as convincingly made as the last St Trinian 's movie . It is played , though , with lively abandon . A tweenie comedy with an uplifting American-style sports movie awkwardly bolted on , it 's a mess - far inferior to the recent Angus , Thongs and Perfect Snogging . Unless you 're fourteen and female , look away now . There 's absolutely nothing for you here . 	More mild than wild . This tween comedy mess falls flat on its face due to poor characters , poor direction and poor jokes .
the stanford prison experiment Alvarez is trying to capture something not just about human behavior but the institutions that shape it , and he mostly gets there . The acting is just too good to dismiss , as well as the fine camera work by Jas Shelton , who turns an innocuous hallway into a fittingly claustrophobic house of horrors . A nerve-shredding two hours even with awareness of how it 's all destined to go down . The line between depicting horrific behavior and wallowing in it gets exceedingly blurry The Stanford Prison Experiment has a calm , queasy , clinical tone , the filmmakers hewing as closely to the actual events as they can . The approach works mostly superbly . Alvarez ... gets some impressive work out of his young actors , particularly Michael Angarano as John Wayne and Ezra Miller and Tye Sheridan as rebellious prisoners . The ugly spectacle of college kids stripping other college kids naked , in a humiliating show of dominance , speaks disturbing volumes . Fortunately , terrific performances from Ezra Miller as `` Prisoner 8612 '' and Michael Angarano as an overlord keep you from hoping for an early release . The film works hard to keep up the suspense : how far will the guards go ? How much can the prisoners take ? At what point , if any , will Zimbardo and his team intervene ? And is his experiment scientific ? Objective ? Humane ? Worthwhile ? Watching these young men brutalize each other is troubling enough , but perhaps the film 's most interesting angle is how the experiment changes more than its subjects . 	As chillingly thought-provoking as it is absorbing and well-acted , The Stanford Prison Experiment offers historical drama that packs a timelessly relevant punch .
brooklyns finest Director Antoine Fuqua knows how to create unbearable tension . Outstanding performances from Richard Gere , Don Cheadle and particularly Ethan Hawke lift this genre material into something special for fans of the actors . Brooklyn 's finest are n't . Compared to films of the genre , Brooklyn 's Finest is n't either . It is , however , one hell of a good try . Or 'Favorite Cop Cliches ' ... feels like three standard-issue episodes of any police TV drama squeezed together . Hugely implausible and relentlessly downbeat cop thriller lacks any sense of authenticity . Fuqua 's sucker-punch of a picture is taut noir of the first order . Offers no surprises , is far from a classic and has forgettable characters , but at least it 's mildly engaging thanks to solid performances and Fuqua 's stylish directing . Unfortunately , forgettable but Fuqua still has an incredible vision for cinema ; I would be interested to see him explore films outside of the crime genre . The film is quick and dirty , somewhat cliched at times and hugely violent , and it also has a dubious ending ; on the other hand , some of the action sequences and all of Don Cheadle 's scenes make the thing worth seeing . Brooklyn 's Finest is a movie that could easily have gone horribly wrong if handled differently , but Antoine Fuqua is clearly a filmmaker at the top of his game . 	It 's appropriately gritty , and soaked in the kind of palpable tension Antoine Fuqua delivers so well , but Brooklyn 's Finest suffers from the comparisons its cliched script provokes .
wolf man Chaney may appear to have had a bad run-in with a hair dryer , but he 's still the definitive villain as tragic hero . A feast of horror , for animals of all kinds . Most horrifying is the potential inability to sway our own innately darker tendencies . This Universal classic not only established Lon Chaney Jr as a horror star but also instigated most of the cinematic werewolf lore concerning pentagrams , the Moon and the fatality of silver . In spite of its age , the emotional impact , and sheer terror has n't lost its punch with great performances , and a tragic ending . A classic creature feature . It 's a good , solid film , held together by Chaney 's appealing performance and great supporting players like Lugosi as Bela the gypsy who turns into a wolf . It 's not as boring as Dracula , but not nearly as inventive as , say , Bride of Frankenstein . Even with a canon that includes the definitive versions of ( among others ) Frankenstein , Dracula and The Phantom of the Opera , this 1941 classic has always remained my favorite of the studio 's prolific output . A wonderfully campy horror film that made a star of Lon Chaney Jr . Despite its hokiness , it stills holds up . 	A handsomely told tale with an affecting performance from Lon Chaney , Jr. , The Wolf Man remains one of the classics of the Universal horror stable .
because of winndixie There 's bad , there 's `` so bad it 's good '' ... and then there 's this moronic film . Heart-warming , old-fashioned family fare Nothing more than a series of scenes , first cute , then sentimental , then funny , and then the cycle repeats itself . It makes a fine argument for what kid-friendly , Christian-compassionate entertainment can be . Director Damien O'Donnell crafts this well-acted , funny , moving story that speaks to people 's loneliness and the need to connect . This film is great for kids and adults alike . Despite director Wayne Wang 's flair for vehicles about characters seeking to fill a void in their lives , he never achieves the right balance here . As family films go , Winn-Dixie is only mildly successful and a bit bland . ... too aggressively cute and sappy , relying on close-ups and standard slapstick montages instead of establishing a genuine emotional connection with the audience . A sweet movie that takes its own sweet time in telling its story . Most of the time , you ca n't go wrong with kids and dogs . Then there 's Because of Winn-Dixie . 	An old-fashioned , if bland , adaptation of Kate DiCamillo 's novel .
cider house rules Irving is lucky in his cast -- especially Caine and Lindo as the flawed father figures . Rule no.1 -- do n't go . Just as tepid and surface-level as Simon Birch was . A disappointingly sleepy and exceedingly dull version of an idiosyncratic , offbeat and memorable novel . A literate and moving adaptation of John Irving 's best-selling novel . Admirable and enjoyable , highlighted by superb performances . The only way this House could rule would be in a much less competitive season . What the film is really about are CHOICES : the need to make them , how they affect others , and actively dealing with the repercussions of your actions . It 's not a story so much as a reverie about possible stories . A bit too still , and so predictable that some part of me kept saying I had read the book when memory told me I had n't . 	The Cider House Rules has wonderful performances , lovely visuals , and an old-fashioned feel .
bigger stronger faster asterisk In arguing that drugs are the symptom , not the cause , Bell raises the steroid debate to a whole new level . Going beyond merely being a devil 's advocate , Bell makes for an intelligent , engaging presence , forgoing the annoying forced naivet proffered by Michael Moore and Morgan Spurlock for tough compassion . It transcends its subject matter to ask provocative , disturbing questions . By the end of [ this ] enlightening and infuriating documentary , the culture of winning has been decisively dissected and what is exposed is n't very pretty , but it is undeniably honest . This is one of the best documentary films of 2008 , along with 'Dear Zachary : A Letter to a Son About His Father . ' A foreboding look at our conception of the human being : as a mechanism that can be sculpted , doped , enhanced , and perfected because , well , because we all want to be powerful and attractive . It 'll shake up your beliefs not just about steroids but about competition , hypocrisy , body obsession and American notions of masculinity . This young , talented filmmaker has as much muscle as he has heart and brains . Bigger , Stronger , Faster* is that rare film that truly challenges its audience . Chris Bell 's very personal documentary , tracking how steroid use influenced his body building family 's game , health and interpersonal relationships , is neither an apology nor a hard-lined expose about doping . 	Bigger , Stronger , Faster* is a fascinating , informative , entertaining and especially introspective account of the American 'enhancement ' culture .
10 things i hate about you Unlike many high school movies , 10 Things contains actors who are able to rise above the silly stereotypes and give their characters life . Easily transcends its hackneyed plot through vivacious acting , crackling dialogue , and sympathetic characters . Lame scenes are made nifty by the movie 's endless energy . As satirical as it is romantic , this is one teen film that is wise enough to span generations in its appeal . A zippy high school comedy . Oh 10 Things , how I loathe thee , let me count the ways . Ni su trama ni sus personajes son de aquellos con los que se pueda identificar la mayora It 's so knowingly cute that most of its jokes go nowhere . It sounds awful , but Junger 's movie is utterly winning . The script is surprisingly witty and filled with razor-sharp barbs hurled from just about every character . 	Julia Stiles and Heath Ledger add strong performances to an unexpectedly clever script , elevating 10 Things ( slightly ) above typical teen fare .
nine 2009 Moments of razzle-dazzle delights but somewhat disappointing . To give Day-Lewis his due , the actor grounds the film 's sillier tendencies in a charming performance of mercurial despair . The film 's only fault is that it lacks the driving narrative force that Marshall had with Chicago , which may be the fault of the original author of the libretto , but it results in the film losing momentum between the awesome musical sequences . The biggest accomplishment of Nine is finding two things that Daniel Day-Lewis ca n't do convincingly . [ Director Robert ] Marshall and screenwriters Michael Tolkin and Anthony Minghella can only muster a ridiculous American fantasy of Italian culture and la dolce vita . The film as a whole is cold and uninvolving , even with Sophia Loren adding some much-needed Italian authenticity to the retro hollowness . The biggest detriment to Marshall 's work is his continued insistence on segregating the music from the film . If you remember the lugubriously comical Bela Lugosi accent used by Jason Segel when performing his 'Dracula ' puppet opera in 'Forgetting Sarah Marshall , ' you 've got a notion of Daniel Day-Lewis ' 'singing ' voice in 'Nine . ' Breezily superficial and emotionally hollow , it steers well clear of the surreal self-examination of its seminal source movie 8 1/2 and works best as a slick music video-styled spectacle of retro Italia . There 's a lot of high-powered star wattage in Nine , but it never generates much heat . 	It has a game , great-looking cast , led by the always worthwhile Daniel Day-Lewis , but Rob Marshall 's Nine is chaotic and curiously distant .
constant gardener taut , intelligent thriller that delves into the motives , good and bad , that fuel human passions or the lack thereof A gripping thriller that exposes the shadowy parameters of a war against the poor and the powerless that is animated by corporate greed and political amorality . awell-acted film with an impressive literary pedigree , but it 's Meirelles and his directorial style who really makes the film into something special . Peel away the melodramatic posturing and the stylistic overkill , and the African poetry proves stunning and very hard to shake . ... [ an ] astoundingly gripping conspiracy thriller ... there is an unblinking complexity about the socio-political climate that smothers this fetching African campus Rises to a pitch of terror and outrage that leaves one shaken . There 's much to absorb here , all played out against a teeming canvas of human turmoil , in a blistering human drama that is positively electrifying . Fernando Meirelles 's excellent adaptation of the novel by John le Carr is likely to linger in your mind and may even trouble your conscience . Director Fernando Meirelles gives a Third World p.o.v . to John le Carre 's often talky , Euro-centric tale of betrayal , venality and corporate malfeasance . The personal and the global are at frustrating odds ... 	The Constant Gardener is a smart , gripping , and suspenseful thriller with rich performances from the leads .
the roommate As interesting as its title . The Roommate has the seed of a promising thriller in its premise yet never taps into the anxiety of discovering that the person designated to share your space makes you uncomfortable . The clichs come thick and fast in this ponderous thriller . With few scares and minimal characterization , The Roommate is really just a far-below-par thriller that desperately wishes it were a different movie -- a longing it shares with the audience . The Roommate is n't just one of the worst films you 'll ever see , it 's one of the worst films you 'll ever see directed by an Oscar nominee . A poorly directed and even more inadequately imagined exercise in genre calisthenics . It would be presumptuous to declare that in the first weekend of February , we 've already found the worst film of 2011 ... but The Roommate encourages that kind of presumption . the direction of the film is fraught with problems , and one feels that the promising young cast deserved better than this . Unfortunately , The Roommate is too timid to make an impression of any kind . There are some interestingly nasty moments and some chills , but it 's predictable and derivative . 	Devoid of chills , thrills , or even cheap titillation , The Roommate is n't even bad enough to be good .
last station Though all the actors try to expand their underwritten roles , Mirren is most successful . The Last Station has got its charms , but it 's hard to take its big ideas too seriously , mostly because Hoffman 's pitch is a little too cute . La pelcula es un placer de principio a fin , no slo por su valor testimonial y su estupenda reconstruccin de poca , sino sobre todo por un notable elenco donde se lucen particularmente Helen Mirren y Christopher Plummer . Plummer 's portrayal deserves a more interesting showcase than this conventional production , aimed at those who value 'culture ' over art . A work of compassion , modulated mournfulness , and unchecked joy . The message is clear , if you did n't get it from the rich acting : This is a film to celebrate nature and life . All of the performances are universally stellar , making this not unlike last year 's Doubt % u2014 a solid , if otherwise unremarkable film that provides a playground for performers of prodigious talents . Turning a fabulously operatic , thematically replete true-life tale into a frosted slice of dinner theatrics , The Last Station conveys nothing more convincingly than its own self-regard . In the end the film is quite moving , and the original home movie and newsreel footage we see over the end credits adds a potent touch to the drama we 've already seen . Acted beautifully by a cast you never want to take your eyes off , so as not to miss a tiny nuance . 	Michael Hoffman 's script does n't quite live up to its famous subject , but this Tolstoy biopic benefits from a spellbinding tour de force performance by Helen Mirren .
10005403-the baxter Every romantic-comedy clich gets played out , but merely re-enacting those clichs in an arch tone is n't funny enough . This innocuous flick tries to evoke screwball rom-coms of the '40s , but despite a few chuckles , it misfires with predictable plotting and forced farce . The only way to even guess that humor is being attempted here is to monitor the comical faces mustered by the actors . While trying really hard to make Elliot a lovable loser , Showalter too often just renders him shrill and annoying . promising , quite funny , but ultimately underwhelming Mildly cute while thoroughly forgettable , the chief achievement of The Baxter is it serves to remind viewers how thoroughly adorable Michelle Williams can be , even in something this inconsequential . Refreshingly free of the ironic uncouth toilet humor usually found in most modern rom-coms . Showalter cria um filme exatamente como seu protagonista : desajeitadamente simptico e divertido . This wry , low-key comedy swims defiantly against the stream of contemporary comedy , eschewing bodily-function jokes and obvious gags in favor of laughs so sly and self-effacing you could almost overlook them . If there is one real treasure to be found in The Baxter , it is in Justin Theroux 's inspired parody of Sebastian Junger ... laugh-out-loud funny whenever he 's on screen 	The Baxter is good-natured , but there are simply not enough laughs to fuel this comedy .
1168378-broken bridges Broken Bridges is one of those movies where most scenes start with a character staring out over a pond , sitting on a porch , or looking at an old photograph , just waiting to reminisce with whoever sidles up next to them . The most uncritical , red-state fans of the ridiculously imposing country star will get exactly the sort of thinly plotted , poorly dialogued , feel-good flick they expect , while anyone else will wonder why this film deserved a green light . Terribly mawkish , like a Hallmark Hall of Fame TV movie . And not even a good TV movie . Director Goldmann , who cut his teeth directing videos for Shania Twain and Faith Hill , never misses a chance to punch-up an emotional scene with a contrived , heart-melting music performance by one or more of his stars . The kind of trite material that seems better suited for the small screen than the big screen . A limp , timeworn tale of a drunken has-been country star ( Keith ) and a TV reporter he had and lost ( Kelly Preston ) who meet again after returning home because of a tragedy . The Country Music Channel 's first foray into feature filmmaking is sickly sweet and thoroughly predictable . It 's obviously intended as a star vehicle , but Broken Bridges turns out to be a rattletrap jalopy for country music performer Toby Keith . Soundtrack sales seem to be the main motivation behind this corny and cliched Southern melodrama that marks the film debut of country music star Toby Keith . An imperfect but emotionally true and often magnificently acted drama . 	A cliched attempt at a feel-good drama , Broken Bridges is schmaltzy , predictable , and stiffly acted .
bad santa It might just make a few hardhearted cynics feel a warm fuzzy for the holidays . The people who made Bad Santa are going straight to hell . I 'll probably be following them for laughing so hard . Zwigoff seems to be having a wonderfully perverse time with this material , directing it with a speed and economy that make the film go by in a breeze . At its dysfunctional , hysterical conclusion , Bad Santa takes the notion of happy , puts it on puree and then pours it out - sort of how life usually is . It 's a one-joke flick , really , but a rib-cracking one at that . I have been laughing myself silly almost every day since I saw it more than a week ago . The movie is less about gaining the Christmas spirit than about defying the corporate ethos that hijacks and then abandons that spirit every year . This coal-black comedy provokes frequent laughs , but many of its jokes feel downright cruel . Uma lio de crescimento e otimismo que todas as crianas deveriam receber . Isto , caso pudessem assistir a Bad Santa - algo que elas definitivamente no devem fazer . The f-word laces Billy Bob 's every comment , including those directed at children . Shock humor abounds , if that is your cup of body waste . 	A gloriously rude and gleefully offensive black comedy , Bad Santa is n't for everyone , but grinches will find it uproariously funny .
thor The only impressive thing about Thor is his wingspan . Entertaining and instantly forgettable . Takes it seriously enough to satisfy the fanboys and slyly but respectfully tantalizes them with touches only they will understand . 'Thor ' is like an evolutionary 'Superman II . ' Good laughs , action , and a hero who needs to lose his powers before he can find out who he truly is . Thor is a comic-book superhero movie with a split personality . There is weighty drama in the Kingdom of Asgard , while the tone of the film becomes flippant and funny when ... Kenneth Branagh [ delivers ] enough style and action to satisfy fans and newcomers alike . A magnificent space romp that will thrill even the most cynical viewer , and a fantastic and fantastical reason to make the trip to the cinema . A thoroughly enjoyable superhero film featuring a pair of breakthrough performances . A perfectly serviceable entry in the cinematic superhero sweepstakes , Thor provides viewers with a good time as long as they 're not taking notes and comparing it to other high-profile Marvel properties . This movie is a lot of fun . 	A dazzling blockbuster that tempers its sweeping scope with wit , humor , and human drama , Thor is mighty Marvel entertainment .
hotel transylvania 2 Slightly spooky sequel is n't stellar , but fine for families . It might not possess the profound concepts behind the laughs and silly faces of Inside Out , but it 's a fun hour-and-a-half that is best spent if you leave your adult mindset at home . The sequel , by Adam Sandler and returning writer Robert Smigel , sinks its teeth into overprotective parenting , families joined by marriage and tradition vs. progress with Sandler in his one of his most lovable roles leading up his pally pack of ghouls Roughly twice as many laughs as the original . Still not enough , though the little kids will giggle . Hotel Transylvania 2 is a surprisingly charming and funny animated sequel . The onslaught [ of gags ] is n't painful , but neither does it do much to distract from the ho-hum story . So much attention has been paid to crafting a relentless string of in-jokes meant for ancient horror fans that the storyline limps from tired blood . Genndy Tartakovsky is a talented director who knows how to telegraph what an animated character is thinking and doing and how to move a character in ways that suggest personality . He deserves a more interesting assignment . `` Be yourself '' proves the obvious takeaway from these exploits , this being a children 's movie . I 'm just not sure the message rang clear among the sounds of the children screaming . While Hotel Transylvania 2 is a visual marvel , it does n't come anywhere close to the originality of the first movie . The story is weaker , the laughs are infrequent , and you can feel the movie 's desperate attempts to seem hip . 	Hotel Transylvania 2 is marginally better than the original , which may or may not be enough of a recommendation to watch 89 minutes of corny , colorfully animated gags from Adam Sandler and company .
mad max fury road Thirty years have passed since our last visit to George Miller 's sun-scorched post-apocalyptic wasteland , and yet `` worth the wait '' still seems a puny response to the two hours of ferocious , unfettered B-movie bliss offered by `` Mad Max : Fury Road . '' Some of the most brilliant visions are only seen for one shot , and that 's how special the Mad Max world is . Even a cutaway is indicative of the world . Great performances , eye-popping cinematography and stunning stunts make this a thunderous comeback for the Aussie icon . Fury Road , with its sensational photography , set design and other technical attributes that bring this fourth Mad Max into the 21st century , will only add more legions of fans to the now-legendary franchise . This spectacularly great reboot is surprisingly owned not by Hardy , who is fine , but by Charlize Theron . A rare case of a filmmaker returning to their groundbreaking franchise and creating something just as game-changing . Perhaps , in this mix of explosive action , manic mythopoeia and radical politics , there is hope for the future after all . Unrestrained and uncompromising , this hugely enjoyable blockbuster provides a mad and memorable ride . More please ! A special film . It 's bombastically entertaining and action packed , but it does n't disregard emotion and story . And it 's a fitting follow-up that will make lovers of the Road Warrior giddy . *This* is how you reboot a franchise . But as good an apocalyptic actioner as `` Mad Max : Fury Road '' is , `` The Road Warrior '' is still the gold standard . 	With exhilarating action and a surprising amount of narrative heft , Mad Max : Fury Road brings George Miller 's post-apocalyptic franchise roaring vigorously back to life .
horton-hears-a-who2008 For the first time , Hollywood has made a whimsical , witty , feature-length version of Dr. Seuss that 's neither overblown nor smutty nor emotionally hollow . A sparkling 'toon that ought to have the family crowd lining up . Seamlessly blends the charming Seussical brand of wit and wisdom with animated thrills today 's movie audiences expect . Succeeds where previous Dr. Seuss adaptations have fallen short , most notably by using animation -- fluid , elastic , genuinely Seussian animation -- to tell the story . Explores the innate value in each of us , the need for persistence in doing the right thing no matter the odds , and it 's a metaphor for faith itself . The sad thing is that this Horton does n't stick by its central message -- that every voice counts -- the way Horton sticks to the Whos . It pretends to , but the sincerity is just too scary to commit to fully . Occasionally charming , frequently dull , and terrible just often enough to be dissatisfying more often than not . The celeb voices just distractingly pull you out of a world that 's supposed to sound like an imagination run wild , not half the cast of The 40-Year-Old Virgin . It would be pretty hard to muck up this Dr. Seuss story and its kid-friendly parable about the rights of all beings , no matter their size or shape , to the basic freedoms of life and liberty . The computer-animated Horton is largely funny and faithful to the spirit of the Dr. Seuss book . A mediocre movie 's a mediocre movie , no matter how overhyped , overblown and overbearing . 	Horton Hears A Who ! is both whimsical and heartwarming , and is the rare Dr. Seuss adaptation that stays true to the spirit of the source material .
mesrine public enemy 1 Mesrine is a movie that deserves to be rated up there with Scarface . It 's so good that after a few minutes you 're so completely absorbed you forget that you 're watching a subtitled movie . The second half of the French gangster series drags a bit at the end but is fun , macho stuff nonetheless . In the title role , Vincent Cassel is a relentless force ... The saga of French mobster Jacques Mesrine is n't compelling enough to warrant a second film . Click for full review ... there 's also a lot of fun to be had spotting the many references to other gangster flicks that Richet has planted throughout his film . You start to wonder if that personality is compelling enough to deserve such scrutiny ... I 'd have settled for a single film compiling the saga 's flashiest moments . It remains totally watchable and , in Cassel , it has an actor as strong as anyone . The last half of the four-hour Mesrine is much better than the first half , but will anyone who sat through the first two tedious hours care ? Part one ends leaving you needing to see part two , which is out in three weeks , and on this showing Mesrine simply is n't worth four hours of your life . 	Vincent Cassel is mesmerizing in the lead role . Even if it 's less focused than its predecessor , it 's more fun .
1218217-single man In this beautifully tailored drama , content and style have as vital a relationship as George and Jim did . The one would be lost without the other . A highly impressive filmmaking debut by former Gucci designer Tom Ford . The central problem with this pristine , narcissistic film : it does n't have a cinematic style , it has a maker 's mark , a signature that would like to see itself as representing a guarantee of quality . Thankfully , Julianne Moore 's around to drink and smoke , reminding him that living in '60s America is more fun if you act like Don Draper . A somber character study of a gay man int he early 1960s , 'A Single Man ' is a drama that features a remarkable , subdued performance by Colin Firth . His first time out , Ford has made one of the best films of the year . The private tragedy of George is never transformed into the gripping stuff of public drama ; his story does n't become our story . While A Single Man may dazzle the eye , it leaves the heart untouched . This film addresses the power of love , the pain of loss , the burden of grief and the joy of life with rare insight and compassion . It may also turn your opinion of Firth for ever . Tom Ford delivers the surprise of the year with a startlingly beautiful and sorrowful meditation on grief . Exactly the worst case scenario of what pops into your head when you hear the phrase `` movie directed by a fashion designer and gay icon '' . 	Though the costumes are beautiful and the art direction impeccable , what stands out most from this debut by fashion designer Tom Ford is the leading performance by Colin Firth .
1216067-fifty dead men walking A well-meaning and inadvertently timely attempt to tackle the Troubles , whose thriller-toned accessibility occasionally trips over cine-clichs . Meanwhile , a confident , complex Sturgess makes his strongest impression yet . An action packed adventure that grows more suspenseful with each sequence . Think Donnie Brasco , with the IRA instead of the Mafia . Jim Sturgess dominates with a star-making turn , although some stylistic slip-ups let him down a little . The movie , shot it Ireland , has a gritty , documentary feel and a sharp , dramatic pulse that never really falters . Despite a strong performance from Sturgess , Fifty Dead Men Walking is ultimately let down by a lack of tension , an uneven script and the shocking miscasting of Rose McGowan . Skogland is a crisp and efficient storyteller . She keeps the players vivid and relatively honest , and never shies away from the brutalities . Sturgess is solid and Kingsley predictably sneaky , but the atmosphere -- scurries through the Catholic/Protestant border , tense stand-offs , spontaneous riots -- is what 's genuinely gripping . A streamlined , adrenalized thriller that is not as deep as it would like to appear , treads a retrospective political tightrope . An action-packed historical Irish thriller . Solid but uneven , it 's made watchable by the leading man 's performance . 	Though somewhat uneven in places , Fifty Dead Men Walking is a gripping portrayal of Ireland 's violent history , carried by the strong performances of its lead actors .
mystic river Eastwood and his perfectly cast ensemble have added layers that give this blue collar multi-generational tragedy Shakespearean scope . It is one of those rare films that surpasses the impact of the book . Too depressing to fill audiences with delight , but it does seem to validate questionable attitudes , especially an indifference to the suffering of innocent people and a willingness to shoot first and ask questions later . Not quite The Great American Tragedy , by a moving work exploring the underbelly of family lives . An adult drama rich in emotional textures . What you end up admiring about the film is its literacy , its authenticity ... and its refusal to let us down easily . [ Eastwood ] is n't afraid to take his time telling a story , letting it breathe like a good wine and thereby making it feel more like life than a movie . A fine movie but not the masterpiece you 've heard . This is one of the finer dramas to come down the pike in some time . 'Mystic River ' is an ambitious failure but it is , ultimately , a failure . It is a shame because there are a lot of little things that I liked about it even as the big things never quite added up . After many meticulously drawn connections , it 's a disappointment to see most of our two-plus hours of careful attention thrown away . 	Anchored by the exceptional acting of its strong cast , Mystic River is a somber drama that unfolds in layers and conveys the tragedy of its story with visceral power .
anatomy of hell Issues of sexual commitment , fidelity and self-worth are graphically explored with the torpid detachment of a psych major 's filmic send-up of a Calvin Klein commercial ... A ponderous but very , very explicit exploration of gender roles and fears that frequently seems like a parody of the genre . Vagina dialogue this may be , but it seems much more like a bunch of arse . Her latest , Anatomy of Hell , does n't so much straddle the fine line between art and porn as balance , bleeding , on the knife 's edge between trenchant and pretentious . A fascinating mood piece from a filmmaker who painstakingly explores the sometimes ugly lives of women -- without flinching . The ultimate lesson being taught is n't how homosexuality can be transposed to kinky hetero sex games . In her latest feature , sexual provocatrix Catherine Breillat turns a philosophical speculum on gender relations to perverse ( and perversely elegant ) effect . A mere parade of shock images meant to free us from our bourgeois illusions -- and since narrative engagement appears to be one of those sins , it 's impossible to find a foothold . Ultimately less reminiscent of similarly themed efforts like Last Tango in Paris than of an explicit health education training film . Deliberately shocking , yawningly plodding and almost mind-bogglingly pretentious -- and its message is laid on with a trowel : Men are idiots . 	Ponderous , pretentious , and -- considering the subject matter -- dull .
confessions of a shopaholic `` Coraline '' is more grounded in reality . A manic and not entirely convincing romantic comedy in which there is no discernible difference between its characters drunk or sober . It was hard to shake the worry that a fizzy comedy about debt would be about as wrong for our current woes as uncorking a bottle of champagne . Confessions is definitely slight . Confessions of a Shopaholic is a disappointing romcom that fails to push any of the required emotional buttons , thanks to a sloppy , unfocussed script and a central character who 's impossible to care about . Between her good looks , sunny demeanor , great thrifty family and apparent lack of trouble in the relationship department , what void is she trying to fill ? Though in the end this garish , frantic , relentlessly cartoonish rom-com pretends to be a warning against mindless materialism , it spends most of its time celebrating it . Click for full review Yearning to be a frothy screwball comedy , this movie has a humor deficit that all the slapstick in Fort Knox could n't offset . The irrepressible Fisher sails through all the slapstick and shrillness and remains very likeable but the manic Confessions Of A Shopaholic does her no favours . It 's even more disappointing because from the general plot of the film it is clear that had the film makers gone in a few different directions Shopaholic could have been a colorful dress from Betsey Johnson instead of just another little black noth 	This middling romantic comedy underutilizes a talented cast and delivers muddled messages on materialism and conspicuous consumption .
goonies All parceled up in one of those gooey 'money does n't buy happiness ' endings so beloved by multimillionaire producers . You 'll feel more like you were on a theme park ride than at a movie Nothing more than cookbook filmmaking . ... lacks charm , wit , or warmth , yet appears to remain a hit with children because of its frenetic pace , slapstick gags , goofy characters , and slightly naughty language . Sick , rude fun . An excellent child oriented fantasy adventure in the vein of `` The Hardy Boys . '' A contemporary equivalent to the Hardy Boys adventure tales . classic mid-1980s Spielberg The action at the center of Chris Columbus ' script occasionally falters and generally feels manufactured , but the kids go about their chores as if convinced that all their make-believe is true . Loads of fun for kids and tweeners , or at least it was back in the '80s . 	An energetic , sometimes noisy mix of Speilbergian sentiment and funhouse tricks that will appeal to kids and nostalgic adults alike .
goosebumps 2015 So unexpectedly deft at balancing humor , drama and scares that it seems destined to become a Halloween classic , if only at slumber parties . It 's a never-boring trip to a world , where stories and imagination are powerful tools , that just might inspire kids to do the scariest thing of all : pick up a book . Goosebumps is positioned to be the first live-action theatrical horror movie for an entire generation of emerging moviegoers . Goofily self-aware and wholesomely boisterous , it 's a children 's picture whose sense of spooky fun readily diverts from its quibble-worthy messaging . It 's cute , it 's funny , it 's exciting , and it 'll remind you why you ever spent hours of your childhood dreaming about what might dwell in the basement or beneath the sink . It may take awhile to really get moving but once it does , GOOSEBUMPS is an entertaining take on the R.L . Stine 's popular books . A great dose of horror for the whole family and one of those rare films that entertain young and old alike . Silly , spooky and skewed - a family-friendly Halloween treat . You can know nothing about Goosebumps and enjoy the Goosebumps movie . Some of the wittier one-liners and more affecting emotional moments feel undermined by the frenzy of chaotic excess . 	Goosebumps boasts just enough of its spooky source material 's kid-friendly charm to make up for the script 's scattershot humor and a punishingly frantic pace .
evil dead 2 dead by dawn Will forever define the careers of Raimi and Campbell , no matter what else they do , and they should be proud . The Evil Dead II is the sort of film which it is really impossible to describe or summarise . You simply have to come along and experience it for yourself . Evil Dead II exceptionally blends comedy , thrills , and gore , while also solidifying Sam Raimi as a gifted and innovative director . Evil Dead II is a great combo of knockout comedy and spooky chills . Where the first was dark and unpleasant , part two is gut-hurtingly funny . Campbell ... is a genius of physical comedy ... Outrageous , out-of-control mayhem . Evil Dead 2 's rampant inventiveness and manic energy have ensured that it will endure as a cult classic . Evil Dead 2 is , pardon the expression , consistently lively -- a ghoulish splatter comedy that uses wildly excessive gore to provoke the kind of shock that lies between a laugh and a scream . The best horror-comedy ever made . 	Evil Dead 2 's increased special effects and slapstick-gore makes it as good -- if not better -- than the original .
elizabethtown The movie comes across like the director died about two-thirds of the way through filming and a loony relative stepped in to finish the project . At least Elizabethtownalways looks and sounds appealing . How sad that Cameron Crowe , the man behind Say Anything and Almost Famous should become so infatuated with whimsy . Falls short of actual emotional resonance , and is really nothing more than a passable Garden State doppelgnger . Crowe is still a master navigator of swampy territory , and any movie that can warm the heart and tickle the funny bone without selling its soul is to be cherished , warts and all . To swallow Elizabethtown without experiencing a sharp tummy cramp of disbelief , you have to accept Orlando Bloom as a tormented soul . Elizabethtown needed a raffish , Preston Sturges-esque ensemble to offset the corn . Cameron Crowe 's Elizabethtown does not know how to end . Two stories fighting for dominance - One full of the usual Crowe magic for romantic fantasy and the other bogged down in slapstick and middle class hick humor . Orlando Bloom gives a typically abysmal performance as a man-boy who does n't know if he 's old enough to shave yet . 	This story of a floundering shoe designer who returns home for a family tragedy gets lost in undeveloped plot lines and lackluster performances .
sunshine cleaning Lifted by a trio of fine performances , Sunshine Cleaning thrives on the unexpected and revels in the low-key . This bittersweet comedy is a fine showcase for a pair of distinctive and appealing talents . Sunshine Cleaning has that `` Sundance '' vibe , in that it feels overly developed and tested for a bittersweet 'indie '' feel and for maximum quirkiness . A smartly done morality tale that could n't be more in sync with these troubled times . If the whole thing was n't so melodramatic every ten seconds the fun and quirkiness would have shown through far more easily . But while director Christine Jeffs finds the pathos in writer Megan Holleys too-quirky script , the piling on of offbeat contrivances overwhelms the emotional weight of the sisters troubled relationship . There should be a self-healing book for film performers titled `` When Bad Scripts Happen to Good Actors . '' And the cast of Sunshine Cleaning should get a group discount . Amy Adams and Emily Blunt , two fine actresses , get the opportunity to glow in strong lead roles as complex , emotionally fractured females who work hard to earn your respect -- and reclaim their own . Funny and easy going family comedy with a feeling similar to `` Little Miss Sunshine . '' A steady pace and good comedic chops combine with positive life values for an attractive package A sweet and appealing , if familiar , concoction . 	Despite a sometimes overly familiar plot , Sunshine Cleaning benefits from the lively performances of its two stars .
1169203-invisible Thought-provoking , philosophical and always interesting , `` The Invisible '' is likely to remain that way , particular when Spidey swings on to the big screen . It 's too bad that this well-wrought , intelligent movie may not find an audience % u2013 perhaps a DVD The Invisible is listless in conception and execution . The only horror here is the script . Full of stiff performances , stupid characters , and an incredibly creepy and occasionally nauseating love story , The Invisible is at least consistently misguided . The drama never comes together in a smart , meaningful way ; indeed , most revelations border on the banal . This latest recycling of foreign-grown frights shows less interest in horror than in healing . There are some intriguing ideas running around in The Invisible , but they never amount to much . If anything , the movie is too introspective , to the point that it does n't build enough conflict or tension . A fully felt , decently crafted teen B-movie melodrama , plenty preposterous in places but alive to the vibrant miseries of being young and misunderstood . It 's all , y'know , such a deep metaphor for alienation , man , especially since nobody truly 'sees ' Annie for who she really is . And yes , you are supposed to take this all extremely seriously . 	Dull and confusing execution makes this ghost story utterly forgettable and unintentionally funny .
ghetto 2002 All of this story is engrossing , especially because it unfolds something more than political data . Even if it offers nothing cinematic , the story alone is important , and interesting , enough to warrant seeing . This kind of hands-on storytelling is ultimately what makes Shanghai Ghetto move beyond a good , dry , reliable textbook and what allows it to rank with its worthy predecessors . Provides a very moving and revelatory footnote to the Holocaust . A Jewish WW II doc that is n't trying simply to out-shock , out-outrage or out-depress its potential audience ! Who knew ... Shanghai Ghetto would make a good primer for high school students ignorant of pre- World War II history , but in the entirety of Holocaust cinema it is a blip on the radar . This may not have the dramatic gut-wrenching impact of other Holocaust films , but it 's a compelling story , mainly because of the way it 's told by the people who were there . The film is n't especially dynamic , but it brims with insightful , poignant memories from survivors . The problem is the needlessly poor quality of its archival prints and film footage . The images lack contrast , are murky and are frequently too dark to be decipherable . Despite the film 's shortcomings , the stories are quietly moving . 	Explores a little-known piece of Holocaust history , weaving together stories of overlapping cultures and their coexistence under the pretext of a war to create a touching and unusual narrative .
deuces wild This clichd tale of combative Brooklyn street gangs in the late 1950s gets it so wrong in so many ways , it 's almost cruel to count them . Slow-motion shots of swaggering tough guys punctuate this painfully hackneyed gang drama set in late-50s Brooklyn . It 's full of sound and fury , and the ensemble tries hard , but mob boss Fitzy has it right : They 're just kids who need to grow up . Contrived , awkward and filled with unintended laughs , the film shows signs that someone other than the director got into the editing room and tried to improve things by making the movie go faster . More nostalgic than realistic , Deuces Wild paints an unimaginative portrait of macho bullshit . It not only promotes every stereotype and invokes every clich of Brooklyn lore , it combines them all into an insulting composite , fuses that to the chrome-and-fins of the pointless Fifties , and then -- weirdly -- pretends it 's Shakespeare . The exploitative , clumsily staged violence overshadows everything , including most of the actors . All I can say is fuhgeddaboutit . This hackneyed throwback to greasers and rumbles steals everything and nothing from the classic gang films that came before it . Brainless , but enjoyably over-the-top , the retro gang melodrama , Deuces Wild represents fifties teen-gang machismo in a way that borders on rough-trade homo-eroticism . 	Melodramatic and weighted down with silly dialogue , Deuces Wild is a forgettable , overheated thriller that leaves no cliche unturned .
1099622-innocents This unresolved mystery charges the events ... with a dreadful sense of uncertainty far more thrilling than the simple supernatural chills of a typical haunted house movie -- another `` turn of the screw , '' as James would have said . This classic ghost tale is based on Henry James ' 1898 novella , The Turn of the Screw . Creepy , atmospheric happenings with effective direction + Deborah Kerr . Despite some passably Jamesian dialogue and adequate-to-good acting , the film too often comes over as a prettily decorated edition of a sick spinster 's diary . This is a space with ample room for both the living and the dead . Oozing ambiguity , Jack Clayton 's shimmering gem is a masterclass in suggestion , a flawless evocation of the uncanny which pits the subconscious against the supernatural to genuinely hair-raising effect . Sends some formidable chills down the spine . You can watch 'The Innocents ' twice and walk away with different conclusions . Psychological horrors have imitated its ambiguous ending ever since . Few have pulled it off half as creepily . No shock tactics here , just the careful creation of sinister atmosphere through decor , Freddie Francis ' haunting camerawork , and evocative acting . Kerr , especially , is excellent . Not altogether frightening , but it has a few creep-out moments that mostly redeem its totally ambiguous ending . 	Creepily atmospheric , The Innocents is a stylishly crafted , chilling British ghost tale with Deborah Kerr at her finest .
walk the line Walk the line es la vivencia de un hombre , entregndose al baile de sus demonios , para despus enfrentarlos y salir avante de ellos . Walk the Line is n't the great musical biopic Ray is , but it has golden moments . Even all the generic biopic stuff ca n't take away from the joy of watching Joaquin Phoenix and Reese Witherspoon singing together . I ... grovel at the feet of Joaquin Phoenix , with whom I 've always been a little in love and to whom I now must pledge myself completely . Mangold understands how to deliver romance without the moon eyes or saccharine coating , and his careful , intimately close camera gets us under the skin of his chosen couple . The movie is less an uncharted journey than a 2 p.m. bus tour of a music industry legend . But like an expert guide , Mangold shepherds the story with enough grace , energy and skill to make it worthwhile . The most dead on portrayal of a country music star since Sissy played Loretta Remove the screenplay issues and one will discover that Walk the Line is an enjoyable and often entertaining picture about the life of a musical legend . A stirring , straightforward musical masterpiece . Walk the Line is unusually moving without ever becoming mawkish , in the usual biopic way . It 's a virtual reincarnation of a peerless American artist . 	Superior acting and authentic crooning capture the emotional subtleties of the legend of Johnny Cash with a freshness that is a pleasure to watch .
its-kind-of-a-funny-story Fleck and Boden have basically taken all of the progress they made between films 1 and 2 and dramatically reversed the process for their mainstream debut . If a movie about schizophrenia , delusion and attempted suicide can be called pleasant , even mild-mannered , this is that movie . An eager beaver of a picture , looking to treat mental illness with a preciousness that often burns like shock treatment . Call it `` Cuckoo Light '' with a PG 13-appropriate amount of angst and just enough laughs and creativity to keep your attention . In the end , the title of the film contains an irony that may be lost on the filmmakers : this is kind of a funny story , no more , no less . Even though the film is somewhat mopey , it 's also packed with great moments . It 's easy to see why the reviews out of Toronto were unkind -- this is easily cast as trivial stuff . But I think its easygoing charm has a lot to recommend it . One minute a quirky comedy , and the next a bleak drama , It ? s Kind of a Funny Story becomes so stifled by its identity crisis that it fails to make a lasting impression . The densely built and bearded Galifianakis demonstrates , in an impressive display of quieter dramatic skills , that he knows when to dial it down . The film 's central element -- its sensitive exploration of a young teen 's emotional confusion -- creates strong audience empathy , however , and gives Fleck and Boden a fertile focus for their signature light-hearted humanist storytelling . 	It 's amiable , and it does a surprisingly good job of sidestepping psych ward comedy cliches , but given its talented cast and directors , It 's Kind of a Funny Story should be more than just mildly entertaining .
bill and teds excellent adventure Whoaa ! What a weird film ! A painfully inept comedy . What really makes it all work are Reeves and Winter . They 're such appealing , wide-eyed idiots that it 's impossible not to pull for them . They make a great team . Just stupid enough to be endearing . Cheerfully stupid comic classic . still relateable today 'Be excellent to each other . ' Out of the mouths of babehounds ... [ Blu-ray ] Classic ! Strange things are afoot at the Circle K . Silly time-capsule comedy ideal for older tweens . An insanely effective no-brainer of a film , sparkling with a simple charm and energy rarely witnessed this side of illegal substances . 	Keanu Reeves and Alex Winter are just charming , goofy , and silly enough to make this fluffy time-travel Adventure work .
beerfest Accept Beer Fest for the ludicrous frat-boy fantasyland it strives to portray and there 's a chance you might laugh at most of it . There 's a better chance that you 'll hate yourself for it the next morning . Five pounds of ( funny ) stuff in a 12-pound bag . The tone of Beerfest is like South Park if they did an episode only about the adults in South Park ... Even real German actors put on ridiculous accents . There 's an old slogan for a popular beer company : `` Tastes great , less filling . '' Beerfest would certainly have tasted better had it been less filling by about 30 minutes . Best viewed while sloshed , Beerfest is idiotic , tasteless and irrepressibly good-natured in other words , a frat-house classic . It 's fun-dumb and definitely not everyone 's cup of tea -- I do n't want to oversell it -- but Broken Lizard keeps it interesting by refusing to color inside the lines , creating their own silly little universe . A movie that feels as if it was conceived , executed , edited and ultimately released by people in an advanced state of gassy inebriation . Real-life beer is needed to fully appreciate the experience , so if you are n't lucky enough to be near a theater that sells alcohol , waiting for the DVD -- and a kegger -- is the only way to go . Beerfest may have good lineage , but that does n't always make for a good movie . In any case , there it is -- all bloated and glassy-eyed and ready for a swig . Possibly the most irresponsible movie ever made and also one of the worst . 	Beerfest features some laugh-inducing gags , but is too long and the pacing too uneven to form a coherent , functioning comedy .
legally blonde Airheaded but fun . Manages to maintain a certain sense of charm . ... consistently entertaining and enjoyable . As usual , [ Witherspoon 's ] a joy to watch ... although the movie itself leaves something to be desired . Witherspoon ... turns in yet another stellar , nuanced comic performance . Like a vanilla ice-cream cone -- sweet , empty calories that taste great on a hot summer day . Witherspoon keeps this movie afloat , because , after all , she is legally blonde . Too bad the rest of the movie is illegally stupid . ... Misses a plum opportunity to be the post-Marilyn blonde movie ... Witherspoon is never less than a pleasure , and one is thankful for her every close-up . This movie is full of humorous wit . 	Though the material is predictable and formulaic , Reese Witherspoon 's funny , nuanced performance makes this movie better than it would have been otherwise .
step into liquid Produced with an insider 's knowledge and affection , but surfing 's moment as an exotic pop phenomenon with a big curiosity factor for landlubbers has passed ... When Step Into Liquid remembers that it is indeed all about the wave , it pulls us right into it . This lively , entertaining documentary shows how surfing has evolved into an extreme sport popular the world over , and yet still retains its slacker , sun-bleached charm . Belongs to that category of films , like nature documentaries and some Andy Warhol movies , that are pleasantly boring . They are neither too thoughtful to demand a critical response , nor too complacent to invite ennui . As transporting as its otherworldly title suggests . Serves up enough action and passion to stay afloat , but at the end of the day it 's just not the perfect ride those earlier films were . A bubble wash for the senses , an adrenaline rush for the mind . All about the sights , which are glorious . utter freedom , drawn in enough shades of blue to fill a king-sized Crayola box . With neo-rock replacing beach boyisms and new optical technology permitting crisp Steadicam close-ups of ballet-like aquabatics , Step into Liquid is state-of-the-art non-art . 	A perfect companion piece to The Endless Summer .
roving mars Despite audiences knowing the happy ending from the get-go , [ director ] Butler manages to inject considerable drama . Not having a way to capture images of the machines at work means that too much of Butler 's film ... is disappointingly made up of computer simulations . A splendidly photographed IMAX 2-D film . [ P ] retty much a big , beautiful ad for NASA and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory , and so what ? Capably accomplishes its mission to Mars by blending solid science with sci-fi eye candy . If the mission of Roving Mars is to get us jazzed again about outer space , it 's mission : accomplished . Manages to present scientific inquiry as an emotional journey , during which two exquisitely designed machines go from being gears and hinges to the embodiment of our best hopes and dreams . Probably is n't as enthralling as its makers hoped , but interesting enough to make for good , informative family entertainment . While it does present a series of stirring images of the Red Planet , far too much of the film 's already brief ( 40-minute ) running time is consumed by shots of anxious-looking scientists and engineers peering intently at their computer monitors . Considering what it promises compared to what it actually delivers ( especially when you factor in the inflated IMAX prices ) , even the most indulgent fan of space exploration is likely to walk away from Roving Mars feeling slightly ripped-off . 	Roving Mars is a decent thrill ride even when it starts feeling like a commercial plug for NASA 's failing space program .
a christmas carol 1951 If I dare to say it , a more dramatically successful work than Dickens 's novella . What we have in this rendition of Dickens ' sometimes misunderstood Carol is an accurate comprehension of the agony of a shabby soul . Moves through a brisk 86 minutes with just enough time to linger on poignant moments . This faithful adaptation of Dickens ' A Christmas Carol is a rare beast indeed , a genuinely affecting melodrama . The story is a timeless classic and this is the best direction translation the cinema has provided thus far . A sturdy 1951 British mounting of the Dickens tale , with Alastair Sim contributing a definitive Scrooge . A bland , stodgy movie . This is easily the best screen version of the much loved yuletide tale . The classic book brought to life . For many decades , this 1951 production was considered to be the best adaptation of Charles Dickens ' `` A Christmas Carol , '' and it is easy to see why : it features excellent production values and a wonderful performance by Alastair Sim as Scrooge . 	The 1951 adaptation of Charles Dickens ' timeless classic is perhaps the most faithful film version -- and Alastair Sim 's performance as Scrooge is not to be missed .
dig Utilizando imagens capturadas ao longo de sete anos , Timoner cria um autntico ( e fascinante ) arco narrativo , estabelecendo brilhantemente a trajetria de seus anti-heris . It basically boils down to : This is your band - this is your band % u2026 on drugs . The movie , which was seven years in the making , plays like a mid-'90s `` Amadeus . '' Here I am , no particular fan of either group , and I found the film immensely enjoyable , like watching an especially hilarious trainwreck as it happens . The movie has become a kind of highway-safety film for the rock community . I had my fill with both band leaders stroking their own egos and calling themselves artists . fulfills the function and promise of all great documentaries Impressively made , riveting documentary that 's both funny and heart-breaking in equal measure . Timoner does n't intrude on the events being filmed or impose editorial comment on what the audience is watching , and there 's no need to . In a year that has seen several fascinating documentaries on famous rock stars and their problems , Dig ! stands out for being about musicians who only think they should be famous . And , man , do they have problems . 	So you wan na be a rock 'n ' roll star ? Dig ! compellingly chronicles the ups and downs of the Dandy Warhols and the Brian Jonestown Massacre , two ambitious bands whose love/hate relationship embodies many of the potential pratfalls of the music business .
starter for ten Despite a very familiar premise and the shameless pandering towards the baby boomers still enamoured with post-punk '80s music that overwhelms the soundtrack , Tom Vaughan 's `` Starter for Ten '' has its moments of sweetness and endearment . Enjoyably fluffy romantic comedy with a witty script , an 80s-tastic soundtrack and a superb comic performance from James McAvoy . Familiar enough to be instantly comfortable with and entertaining enough to be over with before you 'd like to leave these characters . A sweet , funny nostalgia trip back to the '80s for the anglophile in all of us . Starter for Ten benefits from an inviting story , but it 's McAvoy 's lively performance that lends the movie its engaging buoyancy . The spirit of the music -- above all -- really does hold this movie together . Even though it does n't have an original bone in its body , it 's got that dorky goodness you want from a movie about people in their late teens . Pure feel-good romantic nostalgia , whether you lived in 1980 's London or not . There 's nothing particularly insightful or brilliant about the film , but its charm and good humor take it a long way . If you grew up in the British Isles at that time , you 'll totally get it . But even if you did n't , it 'll probably ring truer than the comic college hijinks you 're used to seeing on the screen . 	Starter For 10 is a spirited coming-of-age tale that remains charming and witty even as it veers into darker teritory . The unique setting of a quiz show makes the film wittier than your average romantic comedy .
man apart Man Apart is a buddy flick that ? s come down with a bad case of Don Johnson slicky-cop-itis and tries to cover it up with thickly wadded goatees A revenge tale that tries to act smarter than it really is , and ends up embarrassing itself in the process . Although Diesel 's flexathon is certainly the wrong message in the wrong time , the only harm it can do is through the aggregate culmination of like-minded films . Plays like a forgotten Miami Vice episode . A Man Apart does not set Diesel apart as he had hoped . This is a dumb guy with nothing to lose explosion movie , which is forgiveable , but it is a pretentious , manipulative , and incompetent dumb explosion movie , which is not . Vin Diesel tries to stretch in 'A Man Apart , ' and it 's not a pretty sight . Vin there , done that . Oh , the mediocrity . Overall , A Man Apart is a carelessly clunky and protrusive production that feels as deep as a nostalgically naughty Starsky and Hutch rerun-only without the natural charm and genuine conviction . 	Action and drama elements do n't mix well in this clichd actioner .
muppet movie One of the funniest family films of the 1970s . Jim Henson , Muppet originator , and Frank Oz , creative consultant , have abandoned the successful format of their vidshow , and inserted their creations into a well-crafted combo of musical comedy and fantasy adventure . The cast are all here , along with the technical wizardry , but the dialogue staggers from one leaden gag to another and there is an unmistakeable note of desperation throughout . Cute without being insipid , funny without being childish , The Muppet Movie contains enough magic to please all ages . Muppets everywhere ... and laughs ... and guest stars . Click to read the article . There 's always room in movies for unbridled amiability when it 's governed by intelligence and wit . Regardless of your interpretation , it 's a movie that 's great to share with parents , with siblings , or with children , and it maintains a mature comedic edge that will leave multiple generations enjoying the same experience . The most condensed and purified expression of the starry-eyed optimistic humanism that defined all of Henson 's best work . while The Muppet Movie is certainly entertaining , the shift to a coherent , linear , feature-length narrative deprives the film the show 's brilliantly structured inanity 	The Muppet Movie , the big-screen debut of Jim Henson 's plush creations , is smart , lighthearted , and fun for all ages .
be cool May not be the swiftest piece of cinema out there , but when it has its moments with The Rock , they absolutely kill . One character after another , one scene after another , one cute line of dialogue after another , refers to another movie , a similar character , a contrasting image , or whatever . The movie is like a bureaucrat who keeps sending you to another office . F. Gary Gray seems a clueless bystander , watching the new machine attempt to clone the earlier model 's rhythms , gestures , and confidence , but never knowing which switches to flip . John Travolta returns as the reformed mobster he played in Get Shorty . But while Get Shorty rode the Pulp Fiction craze with finesse , Be Cool is running on empty . It 's instantly forgettable , but smooth fun most of the way . A laugh every five minutes or so is not cool ... it 's not worth the vig owed on a matinee ticket . Director F. Gary Gray fails to provide the same confidence and snap as Sonnenfeld , but with everyone trying very hard to make this thing work , the rewards are there , if light and short-lived . The bits with Cedric the Entertainer and his gun-toting posse struck me as a flaming racist outrage , and casting The Rock as a flamboyantly gay actor/singer must have looked funnier on paper . As average as its predecessor was entertaining , `` Be Cool '' is a spoof of itself . ... joyless . 	Be Cool is tepid , square , and lukewarm ; as a parody of the music business , it has two left feet .
show business 'ShowBusiness , ' a fascinating behind-the-scenes documentary about Broadway , is a special treat for people who love musicals , whether live or onscreen . The film is a love letter to theater and the people who make it . It 's incredibly prescient of Berinstein to know where to be and get in there ... It 's a rosy and warty look at what makes the big shows happen , and what makes them tick . I hope you 'll see it , even if you 're not `` into '' musical theatre . It whets your appetite for the stage ; it certainly made me want to watch every one of these plays . What stands out , not surprisingly , is the work and passion that goes into the shows . But seeing all this from the inside creates an extraordinary level of empathy for those involved . In the end , I wish Berenstein had devoted her filmmaking to two musicals instead of four , thus affording even more screen time to each show 's creative process ( the audition process , the choreography , early rehearsals and such ) . Dori Berinstein 's cameras catch gallant theater people doing what they 've done since Sophocles was a pup : rehearsing , revising , worrying , learning , stretching , struggling to bump things up from good to wonderful and constantly , fervently hoping . ShowBusiness : The Road to Broadway is a tasty bonbon for theater buffs that has many fascinating backstage details . Simply the best documentary ever made about Broadway . The engaging story of the obsession that is Broadway musical theatre with the world-class melodies and melodrama that go with it . A vibrant microcosm of human hopes and dreams . 	Made with obvious care and attention , Showbusiness is an entertaining , insightful look into Broadway .
next three days It 's damn hard to enjoy a thriller when you do n't , wo n't , ca n't believe a word of it . Haggis manages to ... deliver a moving , exciting film that also just so happens to be a veritable how-to guide for breaking out of prison . Good fun for the last 90 minutes . Take a sandwich for the first 40 . Even with an actor of Crowe 's skill , it 's hard to believe the mild , thoughtful John would take to the mean streets of Pittsburgh for fake IDs , blast his way into drug houses and such . It 's hard for Haggis to make the jump to thriller hyperspace after the stodgy opening acts . And when it does go jailbreak on us , it does so unconvincingly . Another prison drama , Paul Haggis ' blandly titled `` The Next Three Days ' is a remake of a far-fetched recent French hit and a movie only the gullible , or the French , could swallow . Suspenseful if not wholly believable , the main problem with The Next Three Days is it lasts about a half day too long . Haggis [ has ] padded the film out with more action , but every extra minute makes the film an extra bit implausible . Rock solid thrills and spills . Do n't get comfy - this is edge-of-the-seat stuff . This is a terrific film with a final reel guaranteed to have you digging your fingers into your armrest . 	Russell Crowe and Elizabeth Banks give it their all , but their solid performances are n't quite enough to compensate for The Next Three Days ' uneven pace and implausible plot .
saw3d Stop . Please , just ... stop . Hate ... HATE ! ! ! If you 've been disappointed with the way the series has been going up until this point , Saw 3D is n't exactly going to change how you feel . With all the money this series has behind it , could n't the studio have hired a director and writers who had the ability to set a little mood ? Make at least something of an effort ? Obviously , not . The Saw franchise ends with a blood-soaked whimper . I want to know how a madman has the time to manufacture all these robot puppets on tricycles and still make room for his nightly Hot Pocket and DVRed episode of Two and a Half Men . The ostensibly final movie in the increasingly preposterous Saw series offers neither much drama nor horror , unfortunately for audiences . The epic , game-changing twist of an ending which brings the series effectively full circle , is so ridiculously , even laughably over-the-top and off-the-rails that it feels more akin to the quirky , self-aware tone set by the last film . The 3D effects do n't help at all in this bland and easily-forgettable entry in the long-running series . The ad campaign has stressed that Saw 3D is the last Saw movie ever . Strange , cos the film ends with a twist that sets up yet ANOTHER flamin ' sequel . 	Sloppily filmed , poorly acted , and illogically plotted , Saw 3D leaves viewers trapped in the most lackluster installment of the series .
deuce bigalow male gigolo The jokes are unabashedly pitched at 12-year-old boys , with flatulence , masturbation and excretions as the leading themes . A couple of these situations are funny , a few are real clunkers , and it all fades away like a slightly bad odor . Utterly disposable . The good news is Deuce Bigalow : Male Gigolo , an insufferably insipid comedy with a cruel subtext , is only 84 minutes long . The story of a schmo who finds love by prostituting himself is actually funnier than it deserves to be , not to mention rather sweet in a sophomoric , manwhore - with - a - heart - of - gold kind of way . Was it ever funny ? I think I laughed once , but , for the life of me , I ca n't remember why . Just saying the name of this movie makes you feel stupid . What in heaven 's name were the geniuses at Disney thinking when they green-lighted this moronic , mean-spirited excuse for a comedy ? Dumb but funny . Rob Schneider is charming as the title character , and he manages to keep his character earnest and likeable even while transforming into a full-fledged male prostitute . 	According to critics , Deuce Bigalow is just too dumb and filled with old , tired gags .
i-can-do-bad-all-by-myself A pleasant , if predictable morality play offering a litany of teachable moments certain to resonate with the Born Again demographic . I Can Do Bad acknowledges Madea 's flaws with loving scrutiny , and does n't require approval of her more selfish attributes . Not a very good movie , but it has some sincerely positive ideas , and those ideas almost make up for the fact that it 's not a very good movie . To keep empire building , Perry needs to step up his game . And his new film -- the almost-musical I Can Do Bad All By Myself -- ai n't quite there . Newcomers willing to go along for the ride may be surprised at how good it feels to be spoonfed all this hope and love . Mr. Perry has his moviemaking machine running smoothly , which is to say somewhat predictably . I Can Do Bad All By Myself may not be a model of tonal restraint , but it 's well acted , it 's funny , the music is phenomenal , and the religion is sincere . If the Atlanta impresario is just bored with cranking out two adaptations a year of his earlier stage work , the audience is getting restless , too . Despite a plot that 's arguably Perry 's most predictable , I Can Do Bad All By Myself is genuinely affecting when the gospel spirit takes hold and is a marked improvement over his last two pieces of moral burlesque . After a summer of phony , pasty rom-coms , do this : See a movie where old-fashioned notions of love , faith , strength , and the possibility of redemption are taken seriously . 	Though somewhat formulaic and predictable , Perry succeeds in mixing broad humor with sincere sentimentality to palatable effect .
nutty professor ii the klumps Even with all the variations on Viagra jokes , you wonder if he can keep it up for 110 minutes . By and large in this longish comedy , he does . Sherman is no longer a fresh creation . Nutty Professor II is neither funny nor endearing enough to conceal the fact that , like its star , it fills the screen with a lot of padding . It dissolves into irrelevant parodies . It relentlessly humiliates its many obese and elderly characters . There are n't many unique feats remaining to pull off in the movies , but surely this is a first . Maybe even worth a return visit . It 's depressing that films like The Klumps pass for seasoned comedy in the beginning of the 21st century . would have been better if it had concentrated more on its subtitle : The Klumps There 's no denying the comic genius Murphy displays again as the title character . 	While Eddie Murphy is still hilarious as the entire Klump family , the movie falls apart because of uneven pacing , a poor script , and skits that rely on being gross rather than funny .
the kill team Krauss is too responsible to do anything flashy with this material . He tells the story directly and in depth . It 's a terrible , inexcusable mark on our contemporary military history , and Krauss 's documentary does nothing to dull the horror surrounding the incidents . Over and over , Winfield 's distraught parents ask , rhetorically , what choice their son had . Thing is , the answer is right in the film ... [ Krauss ] delivers extraordinary material and presents a story meriting attention . He captures how regular people , when existing among vile mindsets , can , themselves , start thinking malignantly . Its extraordinary story can hardly help but involve and outrage . Finds drama in evenhanded storytelling that is the inverse of its characters ' emotional shakiness . Strong subject marred by poor narrative choices . The film is weak on its essential indictment , vaguely suggesting a mood of battlefield boredom without quite pinpointing the pathology that would lead military men to squeeze the trigger pell-mell . It all adds up to a harrowing picture of the casualties of war - and the unchecked madness that may drive those entrusted to defend us . Is the story of The Kill Team singular ? That 's the unspoken question that hangs over this award-winning documentary , another artifact from the `` war on terror . '' 	Urgent , mesmerizing , and infuriating , The Kill Team looks at American foreign policy from a rarely considered perspective .
a girl walks home alone at night Amirpour , a singer and DJ , uses the soundtrack throughout with such verve and rhythm that the film moves towards being a musical . If you see just one Iranian romantic vampire Western this year , it should probably be `` A Girl Walks Home Alone at Night . '' `` A Girl Walks Home Alone at Night '' is a wildly inventive Iranian vampire movie that grabs you by the throat with its dark , moody style , pulsating soundtrack and offbeat love story . ... a genre film with a fresh approach and a distinctive cultural texture : a vampire movie from a female director who stirs American movie references into her stylized Iranian street drama . Amirpour 's film is simply the sum of its influences . Her camera work is lithe and fluid ; she heightens drama through supple camera movements and otherworldly silence . The kind of promising first feature that almost ca n't help but implying that its creator ca n't help but do better next time , but even as a stand-alone , this is a pretty one-of-a-kind experience . Amirpour never lets a message get in the way of a good tune , taking palpable delight in spinning the reels like a cinematic DJ , keeping the crowd on their toes , wrong-footing their dance moves . It 's a smart , subversive tip of the hat to everything from American and Italian Westerns to horror movies , Jim Jarmusch , love stories , Iranian traditionalism and rock 'n ' roll . Oh , and there 's a vampire . Amirpour 's wide-screen , high-contrast black-and-white images heighten the familiar mood of low-rent high style , but her greater gift is choreographic ... Amirpour 's gifts lie in creating beautiful , pregnant images that capture the imagination . 	A Girl Walks Home Alone at Night blends conventional elements into something brilliantly original -- and serves as a striking calling card for writer-director Ana Lily Amirpour .
slums of beverly hills The comedy rarely subsides , and yet the picture is more touching than funny . It covers some serious topics about adolescence , but it does it with a wink and a knowing nod ; some things that are tragic when you 're 14 are quite funny in hindsight . There 's nothing better than being surprised by a film that does more than you expect . not as bad as the title makes it sound Not much humor here . The statement about white trash is lost in an incest subplot . Just a mess . A hilarious comedy that never strains to be funny . Basically I enjoyed Slums of Beverly Hills -- for the wisecracking , for the family squabbles , for the notion of squatters who stake a claim in a Beverly Hills where money , after all , is not the only currency . A nice coming-of-age comedy ! Really , it sounds more intriguing than it is . Nothing really happens . What lifts this brash comedy above the vulgar herd is Tamara Jenkins in a heartfelt feature debut as writer and director . 	Warm , real , and hilarious .
aliens in the attic Even though the basics are in place , they 've been squandered by director John Schultz - a man who does n't seem to have the first idea about how to shoot action , or comedy , or anything else . Writers Mark Burton and Adam F. Goldberg pretty much let their imaginations go wild . What else can be said of a film in which even the vocal talent of J.K. Simmons is virtually indistinguishable from the rest of the cast ? Aliens in the Attic is so thinly written by Mark Burton and Adam F. Goldberg that the characters are defined entirely by the actors playing them ( or , in the case of the f/x-spawned aliens , voicing them ) . There 's nothing really new here : it 's all sub-Home Alone nonsense . There 's nothing remotely original or inventive about this Sci-fi comedy in which Aliens bent on destroying the human race invade the Maine vacation home of an upper class suburban family , but the 8 year olds at which it 's aimed will lap it up . Remarkably unremarkable ; a lively war of the worlds diversion with plenty of spunky special effects , gratuitous slapstick , and Ashley Tisdale parading around in a bikini for all the dads out there . This is just a giant slurp of cinematic Sunny D , quenching the thirst for instant fun with CGI sweeteners and a fast-acting concoction of other slapstick additives . Cute protagonists , sensible morals and refreshing lack of complexity make Aliens in the Attic a bit of guilty pleasure . Gremlins meets Goonies meets something stultifyingly inept in a sci-fi adventure for the very young . 	Inoffensive and kid-friendly this mundane family comedy is light on imagination .
1101561-1101561-malena Everything Fellini had once done with phantasmagoric flair ... Tornatore turns into a vulgar spectacle of screams and slaps . An affecting coming-of-age story . Tornatore 's Malena is to adolescence what his Cinema Paradiso was to childhood , a lyrical if sentimental fable about the perils of gowing up and the power of the imagination . Clunky . At once a charming and tragic tale , Malena is warm , poignant and beautifully crafted . The film lacks a focused , compelling narrative -- perhaps because Tornatore is trying to manufacture a hit by juggling story elements more forced and manipulative than felt . More cringesome than cute . Feels like a compendium of any number of similarly themed coming-of-age films without the ability to mine any fresh , satisfying resonance in the assembly . A film that aspires to do two things at once , but ends up doing not much at all . Tells a hard and true , though nostalgic , story . 	Malena ends up objectifying the character of the movie 's title . Also , the young boy 's emotional investment with Malena is never convincing , as she does n't feel like a three-dimensional person .
10010662-my sisters keeper I found the movie to be really tough and challenging and enjoyable . A surprisingly lovely movie about an absolutely awful subject , My Sister 's Keeper features what also may be the year 's first performance worthy of Oscar mention . Unsubtle , uneven and undeniably effective . My Sister 's Keeper targets tear ducts so ruthlessly , it might as well be sponsored by Kleenex . Tears will be shed as the promised courtroom drama is displaced by other developments - Joan Cusack almost steals the pic as the lachrymose judge who has lost a young daughter herself . The film has its flaws and swims in meticulously crafted schmaltz ... yet also has well-conceived tender moments hiding in the fringes . The film has a profound and compelling premise . Regrettably , it seems intent on being about everything but that premise . Cassavetes ... shows great skill in weaving bright moments -- even an adolescent romance -- into the gloom . It 's still bittersweet , but like mass-produced crme caramel , never too bitter . A morally ambiguous tearjerker with a twist . My Sister 's Keeper ducks some of the bigger moral dilemmas , which may have added more grit . There again this is not a film with grit on its mind , just how quickly it can have you reaching for a handkerchief . 	My Sister 's Keeper gets fine performances from its adult and child actors , but the director 's heavy-handed approach turns a worthy emotional subject into an overly melodramatic tearjerker .
1202111-greatest It 's quite a good film and is extremely well acted , but its emotional assaults were so powerful that I found myself almost unable to endure them . It 's earnest and grueling and gently contrived , and it lets several good performers play at repressing their feelings before letting them rip in jagged arias of Acting . I wanted to like the movie more than I did ; your mileage may vary . The Greatest takes a piece out of you . A well-observed study of an affluent family 's grief and rebirth after a tragic accident . The real surprise is Brosnan 's silent , agonized performance ; his post-007 career has been one long campaign to prove he 's got the goods . It could more appropriately be known as just Good with Brief Moments of Absolute Brilliance . Perhaps the best compliment to give it is that it never comes off as a weepy Lifetime movie . The acting and writing are too good to let that happen . No one -- not Brosnan 's shell-shocked-by-numbers patriarch nor Mulligan 's wide-eyed waif -- comes out of this steroidal pity party unscathed . Emotional realism is captured through small , insightful moments with a stellar cast that lifts it above dealing-with-grief melodrama . Do not mistake The Greatest for a movie about Muhammad Ali . And do not think its ambitious title indicates its overall quality . 	It 's burdened by a predictable , overly melodramatic story , but The Greatest benefits from strong performances by its talented cast .
joyeux noel Not a subtle movie . Nevertheless , the message is noble , moving , and worthwhile . The scenes portray a sense of innocence made all the more affecting by the fact that we know the war went on for years afterward , and a good ( and true ) example of why we 'd fight a lot fewer wars if regular people made those decisions . [ D ] ramatizes this bizarre moment in time with a straightforward aplomb that is devastating , that makes you wish you could laugh at the insanity and pointlessness of it but refuses all emotional response except overwhelming rage and grief . You ca n't watch this film without thinking about modern wars and about how much easier it is to demonize a foe when language and customs are more at odds . Without an interesting point of view attached but tons of nobility to go around , it 's not hard to be left with the feeling these soldiers stopped shooting at each other because , well , `` Silent Night '' is such an excellent song . It 's a marvelously entertaining history lesson -- glossy , emotional and touching . Carion 's faith in his fellow man -- and you sense that wherever they are in the world , they 're his fellow man -- is a touching dose of Christmas cheer that 's unexpectedly welcome in mid-May . Well-photographed and acted , Joyeux Nol suffers most from the inevitable comparison with its betters , such films as Paths of Glory or All Quiet on the Western Front . In language and approach , [ Carion 's ] movie tends toward maudlin self-importance ; technically , it 's at best inconsistent . Saber que o espetacular incidente relatado pelo longa realmente aconteceu algo que , confesso , me reconforta imensamente . 	The poignant humanity on display in Joyeux Noel makes its sentimentality forgivable .
girlhood ..disturbing , yet life affirming portrait ... girlhood is an early stage of life , but the consequences of mistakes upon womanhood and , more significantly , motherhood will ... Deeply affecting in the moment , but I 'm not sure that Garbus draws much in the way of larger conclusions . Gripping . Liz Garbus and company have skillfully captured raw emotions , something 'reality TV ' almost never does , and Girlhood offers two valuable case studies to its audience , however difficult it may be to watch them . Girlhood begins as a document of criminal justice , and ends as a testament to the power of motherhood . It 's one thing to watch the stylized Hollywood versions of troubled teens in films like Bully and Thirteen ; it 's another to witness the gritty reality . The trajectories of Shanae 's and Megan 's lives speak volumes for themselves . Garbus spent three years patiently mining for beauty in the ugliest of environments . The remarkable result stands as a challenge to anyone who would have seen only the worst and walked right by . In the end , the girls ' stories are inspiring and heartbreaking , making this sensitively directed film one of the most rewarding of the year . Hard-headed documentary . 	An intimate , compassionate look at two teenagers in juvenile hall .
under the skin 2013 Viewers willing to embrace a purely visual experience without dramatic , emotional or psychological substance will comprise an ardent cheering section , but the film provides too little for even relatively adventurous specialized audiences to latch onto ... The lack of context - who she is , why she 's here - has the thrillingly uncomfortable effect of making us just as attuned to the strangeness of everyday minutiae as she is . This is a movie about alienation that drives home its point with real aliens . Although Under the Skin screams allegory , it 's hard to see for what . The result is a freshly minted cult masterpiece , mixing the wonder ( and , yes , the occasional slowness ) of 2001 : A Space Odyssey with the terror of Alien . Plunges sci-fi into narrative limbo and visual liquidity . As a sensory experience , Under the Skin often astounds . `` Under the Skin '' is perfectly fine . I 'm just not sure I 'll ever see it again unless I have to . Under The Skin lets its nightmarish imagery do the talking , forgoing explanation in favor of total sensory immersion . One of the most polarizing movies in recent years . 	Its message may prove elusive for some , but with absorbing imagery and a mesmerizing performance from Scarlett Johansson , Under the Skin is a haunting viewing experience .
1084146-thin red line A subtler , stronger , deeper film than Steven Spielberg 's D-Day epic . A frustrating return to the screen of one of American film 's most distinctive and challenging geniuses . A spectacular misfire ! It makes you think and ask questions . Its characters contradict themselves , talking one way , acting another . And it ends abruptly , with many things unresolved . Like life . Presenta los horrores de la guerra de una manera mucho ms sutil que la cinta de Spielberg A visually enchanting , philosophically murky meditation on war . Perhaps the movie 's final , lasting image embraces all we know : From the mud grows the lotus . One of the most harrowing of anti-war statements , and the most beautiful too . Terrifically engrossing ! The battle scenes are vivid , but the film 's true power lies in the spiritual connection the audience makes with the members of the rifle unit . 	The Thin Red Line is a daringly philosophical World War II film with an enormous cast of eager stars .
10009274-priest it is effective within its own terms ... as dull and intolerable an actioner as one can easily recall ... `` Priest '' is based on a series of Korean graphic novels . What it 's really based on , though , is other movies - a whole lot of other movies . Things progress in a thoroughly clichd manner At the very least , the film 's herky-jerky mood swings will keep viewers on their toes long after they become bored with the main plot . The good news is that Priest is not nearly as painful to sit through as Legion . But that 's about it for the good news . On a visceral level , Priest offers enough action and cool bits to probably hold the interest of most 14-year-old boys , but its hodgepodge story and overall derivative nature make it feel like a movie that should have come out back in the '90s . The film is somehow a disappointing combo of too-full and oddly empty . A dourly humourless , futuristic farrago . As happens with big-screen comics , the dialogue fizzles at times . But mostly this is a delicious mash-up of styles and genres : gothic , steampunk , Wild West , martial arts , dystopian fun . 	Sleek and stylish , but those qualities are wasted on a dull , derivative blend of sci-fi , action , and horror .
4 months 3 weeks and 2 days A riveting and realistic Romanian film about an abortion and a young woman who proves that friendship is the crown of life . For people who take their movies seriously , a quick course in Romanian might now be necessary -- and so is a trip to the theater to see 4 Months . Better viewed as an illustration of the extreme dynamics of a friendship of personality contrasts than as a movie about illegal abortion or oppressive Communist regimes . Excruciating , ugly and very , very foreign . Sounds like the ideal candidate for the Palme D'Or . Writer-director Cristian Mungiu confirms the Romanian cinema renaissance while creating a paradoxical marvel : a bleak tale of illegal abortion that powerfully affirms one 's faith in people . What you see will floor you . 4 Months sounds more or less unwatchable . [ Director ] Mungiu 's pacing is so sure , however , in its switching from loose to taut , and the concentration of his leading lady so unwavering , that the movie feels more like a thriller than a moody wallow . It 's a testament to the brilliance of Mungiu 's writing and the actors ' performances that the conversations feel more natural than anything captured on a reality show . The film favours naturalism over polemics and is all the more forceful because of it . While other films may be just as engaging due to wit or sheer spectacle , few have ever been as affecting on an emotional level . 	Featuring gut-wrenching performances from Anamaria Marinca and Laura Vasiliu , 4 Months is a gripping portrayal of life in Communist Romania .
10009132-rec A demonic , barnstorming , cinema verite horror experience that pulls few punches , fears no genre taboo , and reaches for the throat with delightful intimidation . At its best , `` [ REC ] '' is a stress test , with genuinely frightening and surreal use of grainy , fidgety camerawork and eerie night-vision . A shock-a-minute mini-masterpiece of sound design , tricky jolts , and wonderfully distressing tension . This Spanish horror thriller is based on a great idea that takes a new bite at the zombie genre , combined with a different way of telling the story , '' says Andrew While utterly nihilistic in its attempts to disorient the audience , the directors keep `` [ REC ] '' a consistently terrifying experience with some of the most gruesome deaths filmed ... Quick and to the point when it comes to delivering scares . Lazily scripted , without even a pretense of character development or psychological depth , it offers nothing new for genre fans and no reason for mainstream auds to bite . Even thought it 's the third such effort to employ handheld camera in a zombie flick , this has more than enough shocks to hold its own . [ REC ] is ridiculously good . It 's a show-stopping terror trip through something that really should n't work all that well . A well-made funhouse ride of pure terror and near-breathless dread . 	Plunging viewers into the nightmarish hellscape of an apartment complex under siege , [ Rec ] proves that found footage can still be used as an effective delivery mechanism for sparse , economic horror .
donnie darko Kelly is unable to give the movie the kind of pacing that would make us laugh and shock us simultaneously , because he 's too infatuated with an aura of hand-me-down gloom . The big screen , in any shape or form , is the ideal way to experience Donnie Darko , and so a re-release like this is a rare and welcome gift . Creepy , funny , poignant , and stunningly imaginative and original . An engaging , time-tripping Holden Caulfield . A movie overflowing with love and concern for young people , depicting them in all their infuriating , vulnerable complexity . Plays like a comic book rendition of a David Lynch film . A stunning technical accomplishment that virtually bursts with noise , ideas and references . It 's ultimately Kelly 's inventive storytelling and the myriad of complex themes he explores that capture one 's imagination and , in this reviewer 's case , re-ignite one 's passion for the medium . A stunning blend of sci-fi , psychological thriller , and dark comedy . Boasts a dark charm that , though flawed , offers a particular , hard-to-describe beauty . 	Richard Kelly 's debut feature Donnie Darko is a daring , original vision , packed with jarring ideas and intelligence and featuring a remarkable performance from Jake Gyllenhaal as the troubled title character .
baby mama Baby Mama is an endearing but exasperating exercise in fertility , a sort of Sisterhood of the Traveling Uterus , that strikes too many false notes to seem anything but too familiar . Baby Mama adheres fairly closely to the conventions of the studio comedy , although it 's never actually predictable , probably because the characters and subject matter are so novel . I 've been majorly disappointed by romantic comedies over the past year or so . Baby Mama works best when it 's centered on the Odd Couple chemistry of Poehler and Fey . The picture 's only weakness is that the pair 's antics pale in comparison to those exhibited by the low-class trash you can find making fools of themselves any day of the week on the average episode of the Jerry Springer Show . A Saturday Night Live sketch stretched a good hour past its breaking point of no return . What may be the first real outsourcing comedy , Baby Mama is like a pacifier : floppy , nourishment-free and may even keep your teeth from growing in straight . Baby Mama lets Amy Poehler shine on the big screen . The only question is , why did Hollywood wait so long to give her a starring role ? I 'm not making claims that Baby Mama transcends the format 's routine progressions -- opposites not only attract , they learn from each other -- only that , within these conventions , the movie is smart , funny and beguiling . On one level , it 's unfair to penalize a pretty decent movie for not being a great movie , but then again , Fey has proved time and time again that she can do better than this . 	Baby Mama is a lightweight , predictable comedy that ekes by on the strength of its performers .
nanny diaries A bouncy , vaguely Little Red Riding Hood-ish sort of tale . A sleek , handsomely made bauble buoyed by a cast much stronger than the flimsy material deserves . It sounds like the ultimate chick flick with crossover potential -- Scarlett Johansson learning a lot about life and a little about love in a film based on a cornerstone of chick lit -- but not even chicks will get much out of The Nanny Diaries . A misguided film that veers between extremes in sentimentality and misanthropy . Deviating from the book , which is darker , offbeat and critical , the film is compromised , never quite finding the right tone in satirizing its Upscale Manhattan milieu , resulting in a work that 's not satisfying as edgy indie or glitzy studio movie . ... ca n't help but come off as something of a disappointment ... This is supposed to be satire . But it is satire that behaves so predictably it is n't worth studying . As The Nanny Diaries wobbles along uncertainly , it rests on the tense , squared shoulders of Laura Linney . Even a high-powered cast proves unequal to the task of breathing life into these bloodless , lazily conceived phantoms . The end result is a shrill and silly misfire that comes across like an exceptionally expensive piece of television % u2013either a sitcom or a Lifetime Original Movie % u2013than a real movie . 	The Nanny Diaries ' miscast lead and unrealistic , one-dimensional characters make this class satire far less effective than it should 've been .
the skin i live in If theory ultimately outstrips drama in this semi-serious inquest into identity , gender and love , the filmmaking is often thrilling . Even if the end result is a movie that feels surprisingly conventional , given the demented turns it takes , it 's still a real pleasure getting to the end . With a deliberately preposterous storyline involving burning bodies , evil brothers , rape , suicide , revenge , sexual identity and medical procedure , this is darkly comic arthouse soap - with a tinge of horror - and definitely an acquired taste . I have always respected , if not always liked , the works of Almodovar and I am disappointed in him for making a film like `` The Skin I Live In . '' It left a sour taste in my mouth and feeling like I needed a shower afterward . It 's the work of a director firmly in control of his subject and shows that - when he wants to - there are few subjects that he ca n't tackle with flair . It 's constructed to induce kinky shudders , delivering them with the ghoulish technical flair of a purring master . An evolutionary leap from a true master of his craft . This film , by turns macabre , melodramatic , and gothic , makes the heart race and the skin crawl . As coldly calculating and infuriating as it can be , the film and its production design are stunning . But characters ' actions and motivations are beyond comprehension . Pedro Almodovar 's 18th feature finds the man from La Mancha in dazzlingly idiosyncratic form with a sexual melodrama which unites the visual austerity of his more recent work with elements of sheer Almodovarian entertainment . 	The Skin I Live In lacks Almodovar 's famously charged romance , replaced with a wonderfully bizarre and unpredictable detour into arthouse ick .
blood and chocolate Some of the action is ponderous ... The dialogue is nothing to get excited about ... and no one in the cast has a chance at getting an Oscar nomination , but it 's not the worst movie you will ever see . You could almost overlook the chemistry vacuum between Bruckner and Dancy , but the shots of actors leaping and morphing into wolves are so cheesy that they make the bargain-basement special effects in Teen Wolf look Oscar worthy in comparison . All things considered , a more appropriate title would have been Oil and Water . This movie is another sign of a growing tendency in contemporary cinema towards conspicuous imitation . It seems that originality is no longer something to aspire to . Hot Topic : The Movie . This is the kind of werewolf flick that seems to have used up its entire special-effects budget on canine contact lenses . So little happens in Blood and Chocolate that it almost serves as a cautionary tale about traveling to Romania - even if you 're a werewolf , you 're going to be sullen and boring . This wolf story is toothless . Numbingly pedestrian . Moments of inspiration vie in vain with Goth clich . 	Cheap CG effects and laughable dialogue make Blood and Chocolate worse than the usual werewolf flick .
toy story The film will probably be more fully appreciated by adults , who 'll love the snappy , knowing verbal gags , the vivid , deftly defined characters , and the overall conceptual sophistication . Kids are mad about it ; it 's far from painful for parents ; the voice of Mr . Potato Head is Don Rickles . What more could you ask ? The one big negative about Toy Story involves Disney 's overcommercialization . Cute , inventive , entertaining little toy adventure for young and old alike . It does n't enhance the experience , because the film 's timeless appeal is down to great characters and wonderful storytelling ; a classic that does n't need goggles or gimmicks . Disney 's first computer-made animated feature is a 3-D eye popper . It 's a nice change of pace to see the studio draw magic from this modern tale about ordinary 20th-century kid Andy and his eager-to-please playthings . As such Toy Story in 3D is never overwhelming . Nor is it tedious , as many recent 3D vehicles have come too close for comfort to . How perfect that two of the most popular funny guys around , Tom Hanks and Tim Allen , speak for the lead boy-toys . There 's no denying 3D adds extra texture to Pixar 's seminal 1995 buddy movie , emphasising Buzz and Woody 's toy's-eye- view of the world . 	Entertaining as it is innovative , Toy Story reinvigorated animation while heralding the arrival of Pixar as a family-friendly force to be reckoned with .
shanghai knights [ A ] mundane sequel . One exquisite sequence has Jackie both dancing and fighting to the tune of `` Singin ' in the Rain . '' It is a wonderfully entertaining fight scene . On the whole , Shanghai Knights trumps its predecessor in almost every way . This is one of those movies where people turn their heads and you hear a `` swoosh '' ! That sound effect reportedly originated with a head-turn by actor Ben Kingsley . `` In a stiff breeze , '' explained Owen Wilson , `` Ben 's nose could win the America 's Cup . '' a delight from the first scene to the last , a sequel that handily beats its predecessor Shanghai Knights is a happy marriage of East and West that makes one long for Shanghai Morn , Shanghai Dawn and Shanghai Midnight . [ Chan and Wilson ] imbue Shanghai Knights with an aura of collegial high spirits , even when the writers leave them hanging . The Chan/Wilson chemistry that drove the first film and draws people back to this one has n't lost any of its snap . This Jackie Chan/Owen Wilson sequel is a slack retread of Shanghai Noon -- but it 's hard to get too upset about that . You have to wonder when these lackluster Chan and Wilson vehicles will end . 	A silly , anachronistic mess , but the pairing of Chan and Wilson makes the movie fun .
mission impossible 3 When all was said and done two hours later , I had enjoyed myself ... You never completely forget Abrams ' TV pedigree , but the fact he 's turned Mission : Impossible into a star-studded , amped-up version of Alias is n't a bad thing . Mission : Impossible III is so superior to its predecessors that it 's almost unfair to burden it with the name Mission : Impossible . Interfering with what would otherwise suffice as popcorn pleasures , a jolt of `` Law and Order '' -style ripped-from-the-headlines electricity throws the movie fatally off-kilter . After faltering in the John Woo sequel , Mission : Impossible is back on track -- with gusto -- as J.J. Abrams balances action spectacle with character-driven moments . Runs too fast , overloaded with pointless action to the brink of exhaustion . The movie to beat this summer in the race to push your pulse rate past the danger zone . And please do n't ask if the plot makes sense . ... the best-told Mission : Impossible adventure yet . Although it trades in the same high levels of improbability as the previous films , Abrams and his co-scripters inject some humor and emotion , elements sorely lacking in the first two editions . A step forward for the franchise : indeed , a step forward for the big-budget Hollywood action spectacular generally . 	Fast-paced , with eye-popping stunts and special effects , the latest Mission : Impossible installment delivers everything an action fan could ask for . A thrilling summer popcorn flick .
drug war 2013 While Mr. To may not fill the movie with rousing speeches , either by inclination or out of political necessity , the brilliant , unsettling action scenes - ugly , savage , dehumanizing - speak volumes . Filled with intrigue , plot twists and monumental gunfights , it 's an expertly crafted if at times quite violent affair . Deftly balancing gritty police procedural with some memorably surreal/symbolic flourishes , Drug War shows this prolific genre master at the very top of his game . Not only does the film never question the ethics of a war on drugs in which dealers and manufacturers are subject to the death penalty , it appears to enthusiastically endorse it . Cars go crunch , bullets fly , blood spurts , bodies splatter and an unbelievable amount of cocaine is snorted . The climactic shootout , which goes on for 15 minutes and has an astronomical body count , is a masterpiece of its kind . This film about cops and drug dealers in China is a lot like a story set in the Old West with outlaws and lawmen engaged in gun battles . There probably is a point to all this conflict that is lost in the translation . The story 's apparent hero is a police captain without the quirks and complications of To 's usual cops . But a scriptwriting team that includes co-producer and longtime collaborator Wai Ka-fai takes the story in satisfyingly unexpected directions . The film is a singularly huge , relentless , all-encompassing set piece that mutates and spasms with terrifying lack of foresight . It 's all business , business , business . To orchestrates a huge cast and multi-layered plot like the ringmaster of a three-ring circus , his explosive , nihilistic finale layered with betrayals . Drug War is an absorbing , exciting film , and the work of a profoundly assured craftsman . 	A taut , solidly constructed action thriller with uncommon intelligence , Drug War delivers exhilarating set pieces without skimping on sophisticated filmmaking .
trouble the water Intensely gripping footage of the calamitous Hurricane Katrina and the compelling story of survivors Kimberly and Scott Roberts make this a must see documetary . A historical document with a human center . Tia Lessin and Carl Deal 's movie about Hurricane Katrina is , in its way , quite as powerful as Spike Lee 's massive documentary on the subject . Gut-wrenching , infuriating , hopeful and unlike any other documentary ever made , `` Trouble the Water '' is a very specific view of two powerful human beings whose humble heroism and instincts for survival put to shame that of the authorities purported to prov Tells as powerful a story about the New Orleans diaspora as I 've seen on film , from an angle unfamiliar . It plays out like a love story . A spellbinder you do not want to miss . The people in Trouble The Water do n't want your pity . . .they want outrage for the injustices suffered . They get it , and more power to them for keeping that anger alive . The person at the centre emerges as a force of nature unto herself . Meet , and prepare to be inspired by , Kimberly Rivers Roberts . Trouble the Water reveals not only the terrors of the hurricane but also the political and personal valences of its legendary mismanagement . Trouble the Water 's political-made-personal power to invoke both Anderson Cooper levels of rage and the sense that hope springs eternal rests solely with its main subjects . 	This incredible documentary displays the tragedy and mismanagement of Katrina along with the heroism of strangers and survivors .
big eden Has all the crowd-pleasing elements moviegoers respond to . In his first time out as a writer-director , Mr. Bezucha , formerly in charge of creative design for Polo/Ralph Lauren and Coach , drags his feet , pops corn and sometimes stumbles . Much here is charming , if not exactly plausible . Warm and fuzzy . A big , warm embrace of a picture . Bezucha has drained the movie not only of bigotry but also of dramatic conflict . Personally , I found it irresistible -- not great , but definitely irresistible -- and I certainly enjoyed the company of these caring , enlightened people . Yet , for all the film 's slow spots , it 's impossible not to be moved by Henry and Pike 's blossoming romance , thanks especially to Gross and Schweig 's charming lead performances . In an age when self-acceptance and taking a hold of one 's destiny is more relevant than ever , Big Eden may be the right inspirational movie for our evolving times . The characterizations are nifty , but writer/director Thomas Bezucha 's stodgy direction holds the story back ; there 's often a sense that the camera is missing the actors ' best work . 	Though unrealistic , Big Eden has all the charm and sweetness of a fairy tale .
the artist If The Artist truly were from the period it 's about , it would be a minor film that occasionally played on TCM at 3AM , and about which even hardcore silent film fans would n't care much . A valentine to the glories of silent cinema , a triumph of artistic teleportation , pure effervescence that gives crowdpleasing a good name . The Artist delights in an ingeniously straightforward way that exceeds many a modern , technologically advanced , effects-loaded , big-budget blockbuster . A warm and comfy dose of old-school charm and smile-inducing entertainment . Casts a spell- right from the first frame . For anyone that truly loves film . Although a seemingly risky bet for box office success outside of small arthouse niches , the film 's charm and delight of discovery , plus its sterling international performances , could make it a breakout hit in theaters , just as it was in Cannes . For a movie that is so much about technique , it 's surprising how affecting the story is . Michel Hazanavicius ' ... hand is so sure , his actors so engaging ( and engaged ) , that the movie plays as well as any other picture made this year-if not better . Now , that 's what I call entertainment . ... breezy and effortlessly entertaining ... 	A crowd-pleasing tribute to the magic of silent cinema , The Artist is a clever , joyous film with delightful performances and visual style to spare .
the great beauty A seductive , woeful meditation on phony efforts and the challenge of living for the moment . Throughout the film , Sorrentino delivers gorgeous images , crazy images , startling and sexy and serene images ; it 's a visual bath of sorts - the great beauty is everywhere , Jep ( and we ) just have to be open to it . It lingers in the imagination long after more disciplined , well-behaved films have faded . Soa quase como uma explorao felliniana da Itlia dos tempos de Berlusconi , combinando os tipos ( e alguns traos de estilo ) de Fellini com passagens contemplativas cujas narraes em off parecem tentar emular a sensibilidade de Terrence Malick . Many flights , lunges , glides and pokes of the camera in these sequences reveal the magnificence and overpowering weight of Rome 's past and survey the casual surrealism and rich grotesquerie of its present . Leave your iPhone at home for this one or you will buy a plane ticket to Rome before you can escape the theatre . Once the film settles down , it becomes a rollicking yet melancholy tour of a city so spectacular and historic that it paralyzes its inhabitants . Referencing without imitating Fellini , Sorrentino offers an amusing update on Italian society at the end of a cycle . I ca n't remember when a film last gave me such a surge of pure pleasure -- no , outright euphoria -- as The Great Beauty . Sorrentino 's vision is the size of Rome itself , and his confidence is dazzling . 	Dazzlingly ambitious , beautifully filmed , and thoroughly enthralling , The Great Beauty offers virtuoso filmmaking from writer/director Paolo Sorrentino .
etz limon Understated and thought-provoking , and alongside The Visitor should establish Abbass as a major female presence in international cinema . While the entire cast is very good , Abbass must carry most of the film , with little dialogue . Her subtly expressive face is a script unto itself , conveying everything from formal , traditional modesty to angry defiance . The Lemon Tree , though quite plainly made , is another feather in the cap of the director who made the equally affecting The Syrian Bride . Eran Riklis again shows his gift for storytelling , affinity for fine acting , and sensitivity to a seemingly endless , complex and frustrating political standoff . Abbass 's starkly moving performance and the film 's closing shots make this metaphor for the unsolvable unforgettable . A touch too neat but fittingly tart . A minor work on a major subject , Lemon Tree boils Middle Eastern conflict down to two lonely women . Riklis is ultimately unable to center his attention on any one of its multiple fissures and reflexively allows Lemon Tree to rest on its aura of subliminal female solidarity . Lemon Tree offers no solution to the ancient struggles of ownership in the West Bank , but it shines a tender , humane light on the individual lives it continues to disrupt . The two Israelis who take her side are female , which underscores the film 's message : a little less machismo might save a lot more than trees . 	A positive and personal Israeli film that offers an understated and thought-provoking vision of the West Bank troubles .
justin bieber never say never Somebody on screen - you forget who all the adults are ; they 're not important - describes Bieber as `` the Macaulay Culkin of music , '' which seems right , if a little sad . It may not give you Bieber Fever , but you may not be so adamant about finding a cure either . Although this film has not exactly made me into a full-fledged Belieber , it has at least shown me the wisdom of never saying never . A surface look at the life and times of teen idol Justin Bieber . Fine for his adoring fans and adults will be entertained too . This concert film is designed as a marketing tool to make Bieber a bigger global star , but given that , you can observe his charm , ambition and talent , and recognize that he is the first teen idol totally created by the new technologies and social media Far more interesting is the movie 's careful , clever way of showing how 21st century social networking ( most notably YouTube ) was just as important in creating this kid as his smile . It has come to this : parents who have recorded their children 's lives since infancy can see their home films edited into their child 's very own 3-D concert documentary . Justin Bieber : Never Say Never has an engaging back-story that captures Bieber 's meteoric rags-to-riches rise to stardom . The music itself is easily digestible pop ... His self-assurance is a little disconcerting - but , as the home videos show , he always had that kind of natural confidence . It 's vaguely like the fascinating Michael Jackson performance documentary , `` This Is It . '' 	As a tour documentary , it 's rather uninspired -- but as a 3D glimpse of a building pop culture phenomenon , Never Say Never is undeniably entertaining .
1198524-ninja assassin Dumb and dumber German troops , homicidal hotties into doing laundry , creative enemy amputations without benefit of anesthesia , and martial arts hostile takeover of big bucks bank accounts that could have gone the less frenzied route of identity theft . Since the ninjas only come out when it 's dark , most of the movie 's fight scenes are low on both visibility and excitement . It would be hard to expect any surprises from a film called Ninja Assassin , but on the other hand , it would be hard to be disappointed by it either . It does exactly what it says on the tin . All the bloody splatting and fast editing mean that it does n't matter what 's real or not real in Ninja Assassin . Tedious action thriller that goes rapidly downhill after a decent opening , thanks to a nonsensical plot , dodgy acting and repetitive , over-CGI-ed fight scenes . Ninja Assassin has little opportunity to fill its action-free beats with dread or tension . An excessively gory , gruesome chopsocky thriller . A bloody bore . Ninja Assassin could - and should - have been the Zombieland of martial arts flicks . Instead , it 's just totally skip-able . Rain and Harris are decent and there are moments of stylized lunacy that nearly work , but Ninja Assassin is a film that falls apart as soon as you think about any single element of it . Everything in Ninja Assassin is over-amped . 	Overly serious and incomprehensibly edited , Ninja Assassin fails to live up to the promise of its title .
eyes wide shut Disturbing and completely inappropriate for kids . Luscious and rich ! Combines all the flaws that marred Kubrick 's earlier work - including a glacial pace , emotional coldness and the sudden eruption of scenes that seem to belong in a different movie . There is in Cruise a kind of passionate watchfulness and in Kidman a desperate and touching candor , and they keep drawing us past the narrative 's improbabilities to its human heart . I found it brilliantly executed and haunting , like most of Kubrick 's work . A beautifully filmed , thought-provoking , disturbing and occasionally erotic dissection of jealousy and infidelity . [ Kubrick 's ] final , hypnotic , meticulously crafted film ... hangs on something as commonplace as a husband 's confession of his strange desires . Absorbing , yes , but difficult as well . And while it may not measure up to Kubrick 's masterpieces , at least in this `` young '' filmgoer 's mind , it is a great film and well worth seeing . Moviegoers expecting typically crowd-pleasing Tom Cruise fare may come away disappointed , but fans of Kubrick 's unique style will , over time , find plenty to admire . It 's one of the few true masterpieces of the 90 's , even if it took me a third viewing to realize just how phenomenal it was . 	Kubrick 's intense study of the human psyche yields an impressive cinematic work .
dead snow If Mystery Science Theater 3000 had never existed , Dead Snow would have had to invent it . It is ... homage to the genre and , especially , Sam Raimi 's Evil Dead movies . Those undead baddies , allegedly flash-frozen since World War II , are kind of unique , but they do n't make up for the sense of dj vu one feels watching the rest of Wirkola 's bloody vacation-from-hell-athon . Trust me , either this is n't your kind of movie at all or you 've seen everything here done better and with fewer metaphoric quotation marks hovering over it . For young , gore-hungry audiences who have n't seen `` The Evil Dead '' ( one and two ) , Dead Snow could work as a stomach-churning thrill ride , but for more experienced viewers , you 're much better off sticking with a master of the genre like Sam Raimi ... Features multiple beheadings and I think at least half the characters actually see their own intestines . It 's not for the faint of heart , but it is often very , very clever . Hematophagous audiences dissatisfied with Drag Me to Hell could do worse for a double feature than Dead Snow , a Norwegian love letter to American camp-horror . [ Director ] Wirkola keeps the narrative taut , wasting not a frame ; and he throws in funny moments , one involving a Nazi 's icky intestine . Matt Weston 's cinematography adds to the twisted charm . how does one ever live up to the promise of Nazi zombies ? You got ta love a movie about Nazi zombies . Well , you do n't have to love it , but this one is refreshingly gross . Paul Chambers , CNN . 	Though it does n't cover new ground , Dead Snow is an entertaining mix of camp , scares , and blood and guts .
to be or not to be To Be or Not to Be is a delightfully comic take on a dreadfully momentous topic . Classic Lubitsch So long the milieu claims to be nothing nearer Europe than the stage Hollywood studio ( and why otherwise should everyone speak self-consciously good American ? ) , the fun waxes fast and [ furious ] . One of the most profound , emotionally complex comedies ever made , covering a range of tones from satire to slapstick to shocking black humor . Lubitsch carefully mixes his usual brand of sophisticated humor with a bit of bittersweet . One of film 's great farces . Royalties from Springtime for Hitler in Germany outta be sent to Lubitsch 's family . simultaneously hilarious and chilling An obvious masterpiece and one of the more controversial films of its day , Ernst Lubitsch 's brilliant satire is a great example of how comedy can raise social and political awareness while still providing great entertainment . Jack Benny 's best movie . 	A complex and timely satire with as much darkness as slapstick , Ernst Lubitsch 's To Be or Not To Be delicately balances humor and ethics .
outside providence Flunks out more than it passes ! Faithfully evokes the era ! Outside Providence could emerge as the final sleeper comedy of the summer . A poor man 's Good Will Hunting with nothing new or redeeming about it . Is n't worth your time ! Hatosy shines beyond most of his teen peers , and Alec Baldwin could even get a Best Supporting Actor nomination . ... the performances and the genuinely interesting script make this one worth checking out . Michael Corrente loses his bearings , bringing nothing fresh , and everything bland . Entertaining and charming , the film is one of the better , more accurate , 'coming-of-age ' films to be released in awhile . Outside of a smart performance by Shawn Hatosy as Tim Dunphy , there just is n't much that 's enlightening or new in this intimate recollection . 	Miscasted performers and humor miss the mark .
ernest and celestine There is n't much of a moral to this story , but it does put a premium on individuality and pluck . Mostly , `` Ernest & Celestine '' is an ode to the happiness that comes from being with those different from us . Directors Stphane Aubier , Vincent Patar , and Benjamin Renner keep Ernest and Celestine visually stimulating , which should entertain both children and adults alike . One of the most charming animated films ever made . absolutely fine and entirely likeable `` Ernest & Celestine '' delivers a sweet message that should prove delightful to young and old alike . The film 's gorgeous , hand-drawn animation is as lovingly detailed as the drawings a girl mouse named Celestine is secretly making about an imaginary mouse and bear friendship . Were the film made 30 years ago , it would be the kind many families would have worn thin from endless VHS repeats . I ca n't wait to watch it again . It does n't start with the words 'once upon a time , ' but it really should . It 's just that storybook-sweet , that gentle , that comforting of a film . A delightful melding of visual style and narrative pirouettes . Encompassing the powerful elements of honesty , truth , and acceptance , Pennac 's screenplay , once again , fixates on the small details that bring our story full circle and unimaginably to life . 	Sweet and visually charming , Ernest & Celestine offers old-fashioned delights for animation lovers of all ages .
the messengers Boo ? Bah . The only message worth relaying about The Messengers is : Avoid . It is n't until the end that things spin out of control . No one says ' Gim me the bat , Wendy ' or 'Here 's Johnny ! ' But they come close . It 's like a movie premonition - you 've seen it all before . There might be less extravagant means of communicating than throwing an entire banister at someone or unceremoniously dragging them by their feet into the cellar . The grown-ups fare worse : They speak . . . very . . . slowly . . . as if to pad the running time out . This may in fact be the most ridiculous performance John Corbett has ever given . The real message to be learned from The Messengers is that audiences need something new to scare them , not the same old ghosts . Why do movies like this always have such unsatisfactory endings ? Who pays to watch this stuff , anyway ? You ? Hope not . The Pangs are technically proficient enough to deliver the requisite jolts , but dj vu haunts the film as surely as its pasty-faced , hitch-stepped ghoulies , and it 's hard to shake the impression that we 've seen this movie before . Relies way too much on cheap , nerve-jangling sound effects and musical stings to juice up the film 's tepid , PG-13 proceedings . 	The Messengers is an atmospheric but derivative rip-off of countless other horror movies .
lost in la mancha Viewers always seem to have a strange curiosity about disasters . Fulton and Pepe filmed it all and inadvertently captured lightning in a bottle in the process . Gilliam himself is a joy to behold . His wit stays sharp even as his fortunes dull , and the conditions that conspire against him only prove the mettle in our man of La Mancha . It 's disconcerting to recommend this movie for its entertainment value , but highly watchable it is . This is much more than the average making-of documentary . Captures one of the wildest , most heartbreaking episodes in Gilliam 's career . Entertaining documentary about how badly everything went . It 's fascinating , and I bit off every one of my fingernails from the stress . Does exactly what it sets out to do , describing the picture Gilliam was hoping to make and showing just how wrong it went . But it 's also an elegy for every doomed picture that was never made . Filled with humor and human drama , this La Mancha is an intriguing place for film lovers to get lost . 	A remarkable behind-the-scenes look at a movie that was n't , Lost in La Mancha is an incisive , entertaining document of the difficulties inherent in the moviemaking process .
simpsons movie Doh ! What a colossal disappointment . The Simpsons Movie has its funny bits but so does the average Marge-centric episode . But this is a highly anticipated 90-minute episode for which audiences have to pay . Simpsons fans will love it unreservedly , I was amused and passably entertained . It 's better if less daring than the South Park movie and sharper if less poignant than the first Rugrats one . The Simpsons remain the archetypal all-ages animated banquet for the mischievous kid in all of us and the cynically academic adult we should all hope to become . The movie 's ultimate message is about family , and its most basic promise -- to make us laugh -- is one it delivers on more reliably than any of the other big movies this summer . Clever , cutting and irrepressible , The Simpsons Movie hits the big screen with all the humour and panache we have come to expect from the series The flipside of the Bush Admin . being a boon to comics and satirists is that things are so absurd now that almost nothing we could dream of could actually be more absurd . The incomparable gang at full length for the first time , with enough jokes , satire , nonsense , and sentiment to justify the eighty-eight minutes . The Simpsons Movie successfully makes a big experience of one of the greatest TV shows of all time . though Homer himself chastises us , near the start of the movie , for paying for something we can watch on TV for free , I consider the money I put down my contribution to Groening 's good cause . ... what I expected and hoped for and , while it does not strike me as brilliant , it does have brilliant moments . 	The Simpsons Movie contains the hearty laughs , biting satire , and honest portrayal of an American family that makes the show so popular . And it boasts slicker animation and polished writing that hearkens back to the show 's glory days .
1111645-behind enemy lines I had a blast watching it and that 's pretty much all that I was looking for in this film Not since last year 's Rules of Engagement has there been a film with a blacker , more sinister heart . This is an action flick , and in that regard it delivers everything that it 's supposed to and more . The script 's labored efforts to push the proceedings into a thought-provoking military drama -- and draw some clear moral issue -- are , at best , flimsy . The pop-soundtrack bombast of the too-infrequently somber Behind Enemy Lines ... sometimes reduces a mediocre pursuit movie with capable action to 'Rockin ' Bosnia . ' First-time feature director John Moore masters not only the second-by-second intensity of the action sequences and the bleakness of the physical and political landscape . It gives filmgoers a chance to cheer , but seems contrived to do just that . This film was so uninspired and bad , it is difficult to find anything positive to say about it . Forgettable Hollywood war movie that begs you to leave your brain at home ... The film is an exhausting collection of airplane CGI Firefox-style and heroic slow-motion establishing shots with shutter-staggered sprints through minefields . 	The plot for Behind Enemy Lines is more jingoistic than credible , and the overload of flashy visual tricks makes the action sequences resemble a video game .
underworld evolution Yes , I 'll admit , it 's better than the first film , but really not by much . The script ... is n't particularly interesting ... If you enjoyed the first , you 'll find things to enjoy about this one . ... a movie that beats you over the head until you -- along with all the fanged and furry beasts of the future -- are senseless . So this is what eternal damnation feels like . . Underworld : Evolution is what an Uwe Boll movie would look like if Sony 's money were behind it rather than German financiers and if it lacked any unintended laughs . What gratuitous guilty pleasures Underworld promised , Evolution delivers . Indulge . If you listen to Marilyn Manson , read Fangoria magazine , and do all your clothes shopping at Hot Topic , then Underworld : Evolution is the movie for you . All others need n't bother . The murkily atmospheric sets resemble the ruins and prisons of Piranesi . 	A visual and aural assault on the senses , this vampire-werewolf sequel makes a lot of noise and features a heavy-handed , overly convoluted story .
enchanted Subversive enough for older brother , sweet enough for kid sis , this cine-panto 's a safe if not spectacular choice for a Chrimbo family outing . The cartoon chipmunk almost steals it , but Adams ' dippy dazzle is the movie 's heart , soul and lungs . Enchanted squeaks by on the charm of its performers , particularly Adams . Enchanted manages the trick of recasting sugar spun Disney fairy tales of old into a winning , modern-day comedy . Walt Disney would be impressed . It may not win over diehard Disney haters , and it does n't qualify as great filmmaking , but I bet kids will be enjoying this one for decades to come . Enchanted is easily the best Disney movie in years . It could even be the best film of the year . Disney can afford to poke fun at a lot of things about itself , and in Enchanted , it does exactly that , to largely charming effect . Maintains a delicate balance between wish-fulfillment fantasy and a recognition that the world inhabited by its audience is filled with disappointment as well as with joy ... This family film is fun , but essentially paint-by-numbers . Enchanted still provides a pleasant twist on Walt Disney 's traditional output and has enough decent performances from its cast to raise titters and smiles from even the most grumpy movie-goers . There is no doubt about it - Amy Adams is the sole reason Walt Disney Pictures ' `` Enchanted '' is so , well , enchanting . 	A smart re-imagining of fairy tale tropes that 's sure to delight children and adults , Enchanted features witty dialogue , sharp animation , and a star turn by Amy Adams .
a serious man Never has a movie packed with so much hostility or existential angst made me smile from start to finish as this one did . The Coens may play around with that tradition , they may disparage it or mock it . But they are irrevocably a part of it , and that 's all to the good . A philosophical , engrossing and beautifully crafted movie - up there with the Coens ' finest . Sort of a modern day setting for the Book of Job , although the acting is exceptional this is probably too esoteric to appeal to a wide audience . Simultaneamente divertido , melanclico e angustiante , Um Homem Srio um filme de adultos para adultos . Is A Serious Man funny ? Absolutely - but in much the same way as the old joke about a fellow who loved to hit his own head because it felt so good when he stopped . An affecting parable that slyly , subtly carries enormous power in its recognizable portrait of an ordinary man struggling to reconcile his faith with his everyday reality . This seriously funny movie , artfully photographed by the great Roger Deakins , is spiritual in nature , barbed in tone , and , oh , yeah , it stings like hell . A Serious Man represents the brothers at their sardonic best , wringing a sacrilegious amount of gallows humour from the trials of their latterday Job . Una farsa genial , con aires de tragedia , que resulta en una brillante alegora sobre la condicin humana . Una ms para el podio de lo mejor de los Coen . 	Blending dark humor with profoundly personal themes , the Coen brothers deliver what might be their most mature -- if not their best -- film to date .
ashes of time redux 2008 Maybe something gets lost in the translation , as often happens , but Wong may be giving us the first Eastern . The wash and wax has definitely given it a flashy millennial look , but Wong 's lyrical stream-of-consciousness prequel to Louis Cha 's legendary novel The Eagle-Shooting Heroes remains a typically impenetrable . Wong heightens action tropes the way Sergio Leone found arias in western showdowns , though in his version of the Hong Kong martial-arts netherworld the mandatory melees play second fiddle to the characters ' melancholic languor . It 's hard to recommend a film as frustratingly inaccessible as this one , but if you go into the theater expecting a trip to an art gallery , you might be pleasantly surprised . Viewing it on the big screen , with a blaring soundtrack , only amplifies the director 's singular achievement . The motion picture as mood ring . Only in its final scenes do the usual WKW themes emerge in full bloom , but purists should n't miss it . The kicks are more to the head and heart than to the body . Wong Kar Wai could make even a compost heap look as gorgeous as a Vermeer . For this director 's cut , Wong has trimmed several minutes and reorganized the narrative according to the passage of seasons , though the plot is still impenetrable . 	Wong Kar Wai 's redux , with a few slight changes from his 1994 classic , is a feast for the eyes , if a little difficult to follow .
igby goes down I enjoyed the film for its performances . Saved from being merely way-cool by a basic , credible compassion . ... the firm , funny and delicious coming-of-age endeavor that Rushmore should have been ... Steers turns in a snappy screenplay that curls at the edges ; it 's so clever you want to hate it . But he somehow pulls it off . Steers , in his feature film debut , has created a brilliant motion picture . While teens are at the age of self discovery , Igby is doing his best work at self-destruction . Give Igby Goes Down credit for taking its subject seriously regardless , and for having the grace to make good , fearless fun of it in the bargain . Instead of 'The Royal Tenenbaums , ' a viewer might be inclined to term the result 'The Royal Pains ' ... you can admire its attempts at wit without finding the actual outcome terribly funny . Salinger meets the heroine chick with the heroin chic Culkin broods and freaks out ably , but Igby 's snotty , dysfunction-derived malaise remains off-putting , mostly because his lines are n't half as clever or empathic as Steers would believe . 	In the vein of The Catcher in the Rye , Igby Goes Down is scathingly witty and sharply observant .
westworld If you like science fiction , you will probably enjoy seeing the movie . Be prepared however to be frustrated by its low energy level . Great robotic performance by Yul Brenner . The central conceit is so flimsy that it 's only possible to take it seriously at all by treating it as a metaphor . Which , fortunately , can be done pretty easily , entertainingly kitch The film is 83 minutes long and basically puts forward its premise , twists the plot and then ends before the concepts become exhausted . Cool retro fun . classic in a boring sort of a way Its serio-comedy is intellegently presented . Brynner is very good , his austere presence and unflinching intent making him seem indestructible . Verso `` primitiva '' de Jurassic Park , parte de uma premissa interessante , mas jamais cria tenso suficiente no terceiro ato - apesar da boa presena de Brynner . 	Yul Brynner gives a memorable performance as a robotic cowboy in this amusing sci-fi/western hybrid .
being julia Annette Bening gets the role of a lifetime in Being Julia , and she runs off with the movie . It 's an immensely satisfying and stylish entry in the grand tradition of films about the theater . Bravo - Ms. Bening , your new diva crown is waiting . What a performance . Ponderous and superficial , and no art deco fashions or tasteful drawing rooms can compensate for it . One of the best movies from this year 's Telluride Film Festival Being Julia is n't perfect ; but Bening is , and that makes the film sing . Redolent with the aroma of the floor boards , spiced with the overripe theatricality of thespians , and blessed with the grace of a radiant Annette Bening Thank God for Being Julia , an Oscar-worthy comeback role that may just save one of our most gifted actresses from a life of way too much leisure . The play is supposed to serve as both the centerpiece and the climax of the film , which may explain why it wobbles until the end . An intelligently witty comedy that boasts the sort of performance from Annette Bening that had wags predicting an Academy Award nomination months ago . 	Annette Bening delivers a captivating performance in Being Julia , a sophisticated comedy that follows a 1930s stage diva who experiences an identity crisis at age 40 .
1216014-still walking The director has said that , though the story was inspired by the deaths of his parents , he hoped to make a film `` brimming with life . '' He 's succeeded . The tone is perfect ; this is one of those rare films that , despite being rooted firmly in the world around us , is utterly absorbing and capable of reducing the immediacies of life into abstract thoughts in the back of one 's mind . You leave this film with the sense of having spent time with real people with real-world problems . Kore-eda has an extraordinary grasp on his characters , modest people who clearly mean a great deal to him . They will to you , as well . A beautifully measured melodrama that owes much to Yasujiro Ozu 's Japanese classic Tokyo Story . It will strongly move you , but you wo n't be able to say exactly why . It illuminates 24 hours in the life of a Japanese family , and though it may appear that not much is happening , by the end everything is revealed . Sensitively demonstrates how nothing much happening to this idiosyncratic family is the universal story of every family . Still Walking is a miniaturist 's masterpiece , the ebb and flow of familial love distilled to its essence . Kore-eda 's scenarios have always tended toward quiet yet troubling contemplation , but Still Walking is probably his most subdued yet , with unmistakable echoes of the great Yasujiro Ozu . This masterful family drama by Japanese writer- director Hirokazu Kore-eda commences on a deceptively tranquil note , lightly spiced with a needling humor . 	Hirokazu Kore-eda 's film may seem modest at first , but this family drama casts a delicate , entrancing spell .
food inc It 's not a pretty picture . But Food , Inc. is an essential one . It 's a harsh feeling , but Food , Inc. does its job in just getting out the information that most of us probably want to ignore and should n't . Does for the supermarket what `` Jaws '' did for the beach -- marches straight into the dark side of cutthroat agri-business , corporatized meat and the greedy manipulation of both genetics and the law . Feels like the Cliffs notes version of a gripping book . Suffice it to say , after the film 's disturbing glimpses inside the meat industry , along with its blunt indictment of fast food giants , you 'll think twice before eating just about anything nonorganic . A doco which could make you sick ! Consider food your guilty pleasure ? Well , `` Food , Inc , '' shows it 's a killer . You need to see this film . Important -- and disturbing -- documentary about food biz . Although the documentary sometimes feels a little one-sided , lack of participation by companies such as Monsanto Co. and Tyson Foods Inc. ensured such a result . Essential viewing for anyone with even a slight interest in the quality and substance of their health and food , which darn well ought to include everybody . 	An eye-opening expose of the modern food industry , Food , Inc. is both fascinating and terrifying , and essential viewing for any health-conscious citizen .
pina 3d Suggests thrilling new possibilities for the marriage of movies and dance . The 3-D is so subtle , unobtrusive and low-key that at times I felt like I was watching the movie through a View-Master rather than the requisite plastic glasses . That 's not meant as a knock . Beyond a nostalgic tribute for cognoscenti , this visually stunning film is a terrific introduction . It will be an essential resource and inspiration for future dance fans . Thanks to 3D technology it 's dance film quite unlike any other , which was filmmaker Wim Wenders ' intention , and it 's a transporting experience for the uninitiated and the cognoscenti alike . 'Undefeated ' won the Oscar , but the most truly inspiring of the Documentary Feature nominees is 'Pina . ' I know next to nothing about dance , and I was mesmerized . You wo n't hear the names Merce Cunningham , Martha Graham , Paul Taylor or Bob Fosse breathed herein . By virtue of its subject alone , enthusiasts of modern dance will devour Pina . If it was in a bottle , they 'd drink every drop ; if it was in a squeeze-tube , they would rub it on their skin . It 's an immensely attractive film that uses 3D interestingly to create theatrical space and it makes one want to learn more about Bausch and the development of her art . It 's not an overview of Bausch 's career or a statement on her art , but a celebration of her work and the dancers who bring it to life . Pina is a tribute of an artist by an artist , a friend to a friend . But its great genius comes from the mournful , as well as celebratory , reckoning of the performers Bausch pushed , collaborated with and inspired . 	Pina is an immersive , gorgeously shot tribute to the people who express life through movement .
the wolf of wall street 2013 This is an exhilarating story of decadence and debauchery , made all the more thrilling by DiCaprio 's charismatic and physical lead performance . A fun , wild ride that eventually runs out of steam . His fifth collaboration with DiCaprio sits within the Scorsese back-catalogue like it was always meant to be there . Sex and drugs and sex and drugs . I bet this one will end up growing the most in estimation as the years go along . I am not getting on the wrong side of history . It becomes unclear who has too many balls in the air -- the character of Belfort , or the film 's director . Either way , there 's a crash waiting to happen . This much-anticipated chronicle of depravity at once amuses and nauseates . Although Martin Scorsese overindulges as much as his subject , this film proves in the cinematic jungle he 's still the king . Once the bizarre complaints of the easily offended have died down , I do n't doubt that this 'll find a place amongst Scorsese 's best work . ... a black comedy that plays less like the Good Fellas on Wall Street it was pre-sold as than Good-Fellas on Merck Cocaine . It is a three-hour bacchanal , a restless and occasionally disjointed movie that feels as raw and rapacious as its protagonist 	Funny , self-referential , and irreverent to a fault , The Wolf of Wall Street finds Martin Scorsese and Leonardo DiCaprio at their most infectiously dynamic .
party monster [ Culkin and Green 's ] assortment of vocal tics , nervous laughs and over-the-top 'nancy-ness ' often are very funny and appropriately giddy . [ A ] muddled , sometimes touching movie . Never goes deeper than what you might get out of Dr. Phil on a bad day . It 's a cinematic party , one long , strung-out bash that starts out as a novelty and turns into something resembling forced fun before morphing into a bummer . The film is ultimately more a C.A.K.E . partyer 's failed fetish object than a keg partyer 's new Sid and Nancy . We begin the film not knowing what brought Michael and James together . We end , after a too-long 98 minutes , precisely the same way . As a human document 'Party Monster ' is pretty much a disaster ... shapeless and sloppy . There is nothing remotely affecting about Party Monster . Like Alig , Party Monster is a colorful mess , all style and substances and little else . Culkin does a deadly impression of Alig . 	The lurid display of camp soon turns tedious .
runaway jury Lo que tambalea un poco es el final , porque como suele pasar en el cine de Hollywood las cosas se resuelven ms fcilmente de lo que la verosimilitud indicara ... ... the first adaptation of a John Grisham novel whose premise and doings I found did n't ring true for a second . Yet I enjoyed the film from beginning to end . Go figure . As in all his films , there 's a sense that honest human emotion bores Fleder , but he gets points for packing the trial with fine character actors , all of them adept at wringing humor and poignancy from cliche . The movie is skillfully paced by rising director Gary Fleder and has all the usual Grisham touches : big issues , broad characterizations , tense showdowns and a swelling bounty of twists and clues . A crisp piece of entertainment . As a subject for drama , and despite the presiding incredulity of the premise , this one does pack some heat . . The kind of bracing psychological thriller that makes a case for the battle of ideas being every bit as thrilling as a great fight scene . One of the most engrossing underrated legal thrillers in years ... Anexpertly crafted crime thriller that knows how to juggle the facts and the action without bogging them down in fits of overkill . 	An implausible but entertaining legal thriller .
prince of persia sands of time Like sitting in someone else 's living room watching him play a videogame ... with nary a moment of actual tension or excitement in the whole , prefabricated affair . Dastan 's use of parkour unites modern action tropes with the classic stunts used by Douglas Fairbanks , Sr. back in his heyday . Not that Gyllenhaal evinces the same buoyant ebullience , but he has his own brand of devil-may-care swash to his buckle If you know a kid % u2014 of the male persuasion , ideally % u2014 you might want to take him to see it . You might also want to wait at a bar while he does so . S comea a funcionar minimamente quando foge de seu bvio subtexto ( poltico ) e se concentra na imbecilidade de seus ridculos personagens . Its restraint might put off thrill-seekers , but if you can endure the wooden dialogue and sloppy exposition , it musters the entertainment quotient of a middle-order Harry Potter . Bring a joystick to this big budget adventure . It 'll give your hands something to do when you 're restless . The movie has you yearning to steal that dagger and make time jump forward . Prince of Persia is the sort of popcorn-eating , mindless actioner you 'd expect for the summer , made only slightly more appealing by Jake Gyllenhaal 's performance . the film 's joyous embrace of the gaudy computerized action earns it the tag of fun , but not to be taken seriously . The story unfolds with little regard for subtlety , and wisecracks are what pass for humor . When a gaggle of gangly ostriches offers one of the biggest laughs , wit clearly is at a premium . 	It does n't offer much in the way of substance , but Prince of Persia is a suitably entertaining swashbuckler -- and a substantial improvement over most video game adaptations .
mirrormask If MirrorMask is a marvel of visual ingenuity , its monochromatic panoramas are too busy and flat to yield an illusion of depth or to convey a feeling of characters moving in space . ... one of those movies that might be improved immensely by the consumption of certain mood-altering substances . This is a film packed full of vivid imagination and brilliantly realized visual concepts -- all in the service of a so-so story with forgettable characters . Gaiman 's vision for the film is cluttered , but commendably ambitious , and he succeeds more than he fails in crafting an adventure/fantasy for thinking audiences . The fever-dream universe cooked up by McKean is so brimming with off-the-wall imagination , one wishes it were n't all so hard to penetrate . McKean 's inexperience as a director trips the film . There is so much going on that the viewer ca n't take in all the imagery , and McKean 's devotion to his skewed vision slows the story to a crawl . If The Wizard of Oz were reborn in the 21st century , it might look a lot like MirrorMask . this admittedly stupendous-looking film deserves quite a lot of credit for trying , even if the end result never quite makes it Like with any magic show , the delight is in the illusion -- not the story . It is , however , a showcase that defines visual creativity . Plays less like a cohesive film and more like a collection of amazing scenes . 	While visually dazzling , there is n't enough story to hang all the fancy effects on .
night catches us `` Night Catches Us '' never catches up with the past that it only keeps in its rearview perspective . Attempts to pry the lid off a painful chapter of American history that textbook writers and elected officials would rather erase or whitewash . Tanya Hamilton 's Night Catches Us , a snapshot of the post-Black Power movement era , suffers most from its structural deficiencies . Tending towards lyricism rather than urgency , the director strikes a tone that is both melancholic and ultimately hopeful Tanya Hamilton directed her own script , and though her ending leaves loose ends dangling , the movie is refreshing for its seriousness and originality . Night Catches Us , a politically sophisticated and ethically serious film , makes no big speeches or obvious points . It 's either a testament to David Tumblety 's cinematography or a knock to Philly that the city looks gray and gritty , perfect for the '70s milieu of locally-based writer-director Tanya Hamilton 's film . Hamilton drifts dangerously close to formula , and risks reducing her genuinely fascinating subject to a backdrop . But Mackie and Washington are too fine to let stock situations overtake them . The film leads to no showy conclusion , no spectacular climax . It is about movement possible within the soul even in difficult times . Washington and Mackie both deliver deeply-felt performances in roles that are all about nuance , particularly when the text sometimes fails them . 	A bold , original debut , Night Catches Us personalizes a tumultuous period in American history thanks to strong performances from Anthony Mackie and Kerry Washington .
teenage mutant ninja turtles iii Terrible conclusion of the trilogy . The first two were great comic/cartoon adaptations . But back in time ? What the hell is that about ? The novelty is starting to wear off by this second sequel These fighting-intensive movies , a glorification of hurtful action , are strictly for children . While the corpse count is low , the mimicking turtles stand for nothing more important than the employment of physical force . Less amateurish than the 1990 original , less embarrassing than the 1991 sequel ( with its mind-boggling Vanilla Ice ninja-rap number ) , this may be the easiest installment in the series for parents to sit through . Really stupid . Even kids are likely to respond to Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles III with less enthusiasm than they did to the first two films in this series . The first film was bad , the second worse , and the third almost unbearable . The wisecracks have been cut back , and where once the Ninjas ' dude-speak was original ( influencing , for example , Wayne 's World ) it 's now merely imitative . A decided case of diminishing returns . Two were n't enough ? ? ? 	It 's a case of one sequel too many for the heroes in a half shell , with a tired time-travel plot gimmick failing to save the franchise from rapidly diminishing returns .
scream 3 Unfortunately , there 's nothing here that even the most inexperienced horror film fan would call innovative , and the predictable result is a movie that pales in comparison with its predecessors . Just a blur of blood and guts -- exactly the type of dreary mayhem that Scream was born to demolish . An unending string of bloopers , starring nubile , buxom and possibly anorexic stars . Been there , done that . ... a rather anticlimactic finish to a series that started out with such promise ... Scream 3 is a crafty and well-crafted wrap-up that really does bring a satisfying sense of closure to the franchise . An entertaining , comic slasher movie that offers solid answers to the questions that have been nagging fans since the original installment . The tortuous path to unmasking the killer ( s ) has , of course , become one of the series ' trademarks -- and , for my money , the most annoying . The funniest of the trilogy . Missing from the third installment are many of original scribe Kevin Williamson 's self-referential genre jokes and a lot of his energetic bravura . 	According to critics , Scream 3 has become what it originally spoofed . Despite some surprising twists , the movie seems to have lost its freshness and originality by falling back on the old horror formulas and cliches .
edge A riveting story of survival , and the most rousing and gripping outdoor adventure since the original Jaws . One of 1997 's very best films . The Edge succeeds ably in blending his famously acerbic dialogue with nerve-racking adventure scenes . A pretty routine B-type action movie with some nice touches . It takes more than a few lines of clever dialogue , a hero who reads books , and an actor with British training and lots of dignity to keep a movie from going pretty much by the book . ... The Edge is not only half-baked , warmed-over Hemingway . A few scattered profanities , a couple of gory accidents and a subplot about suspected adultery are all that separates this story from the grade-school classic `` My Side of the Mountain . '' ... even less intelligent than your average action flick . I laughed frequently , but the problem is that I 'm not sure the director intended there to be as much humor in his film as I uncovered . Anthony Hopkins ' first action movie casts him as a gentle , brainy tycoon stuck in the Alaskan wilderness with only voracious bears and , just as threatening , Alec Baldwin for company . But it 's too predictable by half , and Mamet 's profundities have more volume than mass . 	The Edge is an entertaining hybrid of brainy Mamet dialogue with brawny outdoors action -- albeit one that sadly lacks as much bite as its furry antagonist .
1128647-monster A frank , spare , but ultimately heartbreaking movie . It 's hard to say how much of the paunchy Wuornos is actually Theron and how much of it is prosthetic . View this movie prepared , but definitely view it - for Theron 's incredible performance and its important - if difficult - subject matter . Monster does n't sort everything out for you ; it does n't ask for your sympathy for Wuornos or your condemnation either . Emotionally , it 's messy , but that 's how life is . Monster is a brave , unsettling film , a little rough around the edges but unflinching to the end . Yes , the story is an ugly one , but the actresses command our attention and demand we confront this unrepentant 'monster ' to examine her humanity . In [ Theron 's ] hands what might have been an extreme-acting stunt is instead an abrasive study in bitter , lethal desperation . Although truly painful to watch at times , Monster nonetheless deserves to be seen , if only for Theron 's startling tour-de-force performance . Theron 's great , but as with so much of the indie-film scene on display these days , Monster has a kind of cookie-cutter look , feel and sound to it . This is a `` Monster '' of a movie . 	Charlize Theron gives a searing , deglamorized performance as real life serial killer Aileen Wuornos in Monster , an intense , disquieting portrait of a profoundly damaged soul .
shadow of the vampire The film 's ornate design and exacting attention to detail -- as well as at least one terrific performance -- will make it worthwhile for horror fans and movie buffs . ... a metaphor for obsessive filmmaking and the film industry 's penchant for devouring its own talent ... a sly , often funny , yet affectionate send-up of the genre . Horror is as old as movie pictures , but this film shows it still holds dark depths to explore . Dafoe 's interpretation of the real Max Schreck 's vampire is hypnotic , and the transitions between clips from the real Nosferatu and Merhige 's recreation of the shooting of those same scenes is simply magical . Dafoe not only looks and acts the part of an actor playing the part of a vampire , he is the vampire playing the part of the actor . In a word , he is perfect . Unusual and delightful . Dafoe brings a terrifying realism to a character long steeped in mystery . One of the year 's most watchable movies , particularly for film buffs . [ Dafoe ] gives Shadow both style and substance , flesh and fantasy . This in-reference fest for frightfilm fans has enough chuckles and shudders even for those who 've never heard of Nosferatu . 	Shadow of the Vampire is frightening , compelling , and funny , and features an excellent performance by Willem Dafoe .
waiting for superman While it may not be comprehensive in its approach , it is powerful enough to get all but the most apathetic people stirred up enough to do something . Well-edited , heartfelt and captivating , but not thorough or well-balanced enough to be truly enlightening . 'Waiting for Superman ' is an important yet definitely flawed discourse on the current courses America 's public educational system is taking , making , faking and breaking . Go see it , and then talk about it . But do n't necessarily buy into it . Exhilarating , heartbreaking and righteous , Waiting for Superman is also a kind of high-minded thriller : Can the American education system be cured ? The movie goes right to the heart in focusing on the fates of some irresistibly real kids and the loving , frustrated parents and grandparents who care for them . Superman can sometimes feel more like a lecture and an info-dump than a gripping narrative , but to his credit , Guggenheim never lets us forget the high , human stakes involved in saving public schools from themselves . Superman is a polished piece of advocacy filmmaking , even if it lacks the rock-star charisma of Al Gore . Guggenheim 's insistence on not engaging with the injustices that children of certain races and classes face outside of school makes his reiteration of the obvious ... seem all the more willfully nave . This is more than an Important Documentary : it is engaging and , finally , enraging -- as captivating as any Superman movie , and as poignant as a child 's plea for help . 	Gripping , heartbreaking , and ultimately hopeful , Waiting for Superman is an impassioned indictment of the American school system from An Inconvenient Truth director Davis Guggenheim .
1093881-house on haunted hill Scary bad and a frightening waste of talent . In our post-torture-porn era of gloom and doom , its ebullience feels like a breath of fresh air . Quarts of shiny blood are splashed around and numerous moans and groans pepper the soundtrack , but astonishingly , the movie never manages to provoke so much as a shudder . Consistently inert -- even though the fee for successful housesitting has been raised to a million bucks a night . It 's a cheesy throwaway horror flick , but it 's a tight cheesy throwaway horror flick . House on Haunted Hill is n't a great movie . It is , however , a good deal of gory fun . Moments of effective horror pop up on a semi-regular basis , but they are not enough to offset the increasingly tedious feel . Fails to deliver even one good 'boo ! ' moment . House on Haunted Hill is a sorry reincarnation of the 1950s William Castle horror film . All the visual bravura does n't fill in the gaping plot holes or generate any real frights . 	Unsophisticated and unoriginal film fails to produce scares .
pretty in pink Miss Ringwald 's pouty naturalness remains her biggest asset , and her performance is once again appealing . Deutch has no discernible style ; the scenes march ahead with only one development per scene , much like the worst in American television . Hughes ' penetrating insight into the minds of 1980s kids makes this one of the best films to bear his name . I got my first date because of this movie so you wo n't see me giving it any less than three stars . Pretty in Pink is an engaging movie about youthful concerns that never go out of fashion . Unfortunately she gets straitjacketed in her current movie by a script that settles for black-and-white pronouncements instead of the delicate shades of gray that Ringwald employs . It is perhaps too much to ask that a John Hughes film bear the standard for class warfare in the 1980s , especially when the film was so tone-deaf in depicting its subculture 's milieu . I would n't want to be there when Duckie finally detonates . While the script contains trite and unbelievable dialogue , the superbly convincing performances make up for these faults . Although it is not a great movie , it contains some moments when the audience is likely to think , yes , being 16 was exactly like that . 	Molly Ringwald gives an outstanding performance in this sweet , intelligent teen comedy that takes an ancient premise and injects it with insight and wit .
racing stripes I ca n't remember the last time I gave a movie an extra half star because the animal lead is so cute . A family film that tries to duplicate the moral uplift of `` Babe '' and fails miserably with its emphasis upon competition and winning . Bland but likable kids ' movie . Part earnest , old-fashioned melodrama , part wisecracking broad comedy , Racing Stripes is a film divided against itself . The results do n't come close to duplicating Noonan 's charming and gentle barnyard fable [ Babe ] . This is the kind of movie you might grab at the video store , but it 's not worth the trip to the theater . Simultaneously overplotted and simplistic , the new barnyard/racecourse comedy from Warner Brothers is predictable every step of the way , and it contains at least three too many poop jokes . A sweet , heartfelt , and sometimes clever film whose reticence to maintain a consistent tone automatically condemns it to life as a scattershot novelty . That it is familiar and predictable is a given , but nevertheless Racing Stripes is an enjoyable film . Offers enjoyable moments . 	An entertaining children movie that ought to be tolerable for adults .
1210749-eclipse In a rare moment of insight , the teenage but immortal vampires in The Twilight Saga : Eclipse complain about being `` frozen '' in their lives , unable to `` move forward . '' So is everyone involved in this deathtrap of a franchise . Calling Eclipse the best of the three Twilight films so far is certainly fair , but it edges into 'world 's tallest midget ' territory . With roughly 20 minutes of its two-hour running time devoted to characters doing something besides alternately moping and declaring their eternal love for each other , Eclipse stands as the most action-packed entry yet . Viewers who value the little things , such as passable acting and dialogue not stolen from a sixth-grader 's diary , will once again walk away dazed , dumbfounded and partially deaf from all the surrounding squealing . The Twilight Saga : Eclipse dispenses with much of the caramel gooeyness of the first two episodes in favor of decent action , some heartfelt tender moments and even a splash of wit . This time they 're actually Twi-ing . The good news is that the mood is a little lighter than in New Moon , which was full of teenage angst and suicide attempts . Edward and Bella even get to smile now and again and there 's the occasional funny line . Hold on tight , spider monkey . With its third installment , the Twilight series has reached dangerously close to competence . I ca n't pretend that the third episode instilled a fever in my blood , but it did n't leave me cold . For the first time in the series I felt I 'd seen a real movie . Probably the best in the series , and a definite rebound from the bland second one . It will make its intended audience swoon . The latest installment of the Twilight franchise 's teeny-bopper-vampire-werewolf-melodrama comes the closest so far to presenting an entertaining cinematic experience but still not close enough for uninitiated audiences . 	Stuffed with characters and overly reliant on uninspired dialogue , Eclipse wo n't win The Twilight Saga many new converts , despite an improved blend of romance and action fantasy .
1215969-i sell the dead Movie fans of all kinds will appreciate a film that knows the differences among 'terror , ' 'terrible ' and 'terribly good fun . ' The budget was clearly minuscule , but writer/director Glenn McQuaid 's deft dialogue , strong characters and clever plotting attracted some impressive acting talent . Droll perfs , diverting f/x and handsome B-pic atmospherics ensure a good time for horror fans with a memory past last weekend 's slasher remake . I Sell the Dead sports playful genre inventiveness , in which fans can delight and even outsiders can enjoy . If you 're old enough to remember the goofy double bills that American International used to churn out in the fifties , you 'll have some idea of the quality of this movie . Whether you 'll consider that an attractive proposition is another matter . Capably delivers a half-dozen sub-genres in less than 88 minutes . That 's just plain old fun , regardless of how much the flick cost to produce . The cast and crew behind I Sell the Dead are clearly having a blast - and audiences will nave nearly as much fun with this smart horror comedy . A fine pair of grave robbers , ( director ) Mr. McQuaid and ( producer ) Mr. Fessenden plunder freely from the movie crypt , unearthing other chomping , glowing mysteries and monstrosities . A fresh , darkly funny blend of crime [ graverobbing , to be precise ] and supernatural hijinks ... that delivers an offbeat but carefully balanced mix of shocks , homages and uneasy chuckles . The sort of movie that was probably more fun to make than it is to watch . 	A horror comedy that 's almost as chilling as it is funny , I Sell the Dead relies on its dark humor and offbeat charm to overcome its low budget shortcomings .
10012051-frozen Green definitely knows his way around a suspense sequence , but he needs to find a way to work those sequences into a movie that has its own organic life , and is n't so ... well , please refer back to the title . Green choreographs the dangling trio from a multitude of intriguing angles , showing a keen eye for moody menace and compelling gruesomeness . Both the audience and the characters are stuck in their chairs waiting and waiting and waiting and ... Adam Green 's fun 2006 horror film Hatchet revelled in the art of self-aware pastiche , but it is in his second major work that he has found a legitimately great concept out of which to wring more nuanced thrills . The movie has a good flow , and it understands how to generate thrills , but the characters , situation and dialogue are stretched a bit thin . Three teenagers stranded on a ski lift does n't sound like the most enthralling concept for a thriller , but writer/director Adam Green ( Hatchet ) takes the idea to nail-chomping heights . This minimalist thriller offers the same endurance-test nightmare as Open Water , only here the imperilled characters are marooned on a mountain , and wolves substitute for the sharks . Most of the movie consists of petty bickering between the characters . And screenwriter/director Adam Green 's dialogue in these scenes in awful . It wants to be a real chiller , but comes out curiously lukewarm . `` Frozen '' is a suspense thriller that 's better than it deserves to be , but still not as good as it should be . 	Writer/director Adam Green has the beginnings of an inventive , frightening yarn in Frozen , but neither the script nor the cast are quite strong enough to truly do it justice .
jaws the revenge Pacing leaves a lot to be desired and the moment-of-attack sequences , full of jagged cuts and a great deal of noise , more closely resemble the view from inside a washing machine . Okay , I 'm sold . It 's the worst sequel ever made . Yes , even including Batman and Robin . Everything in Jaws the Revenge is utterly expectable , which is n't a bright idea for a film relying on suspense and tension . Spielberg should never have sold the sequel rights After Steven Spielberg 's original , which combined shock effects with comedy and grand sea adventure touches , the series has degenerated into your basic fish-bites-man story , with very few imaginative wrinkles . A ludicrous and laughable sequel that desecrates the name of a fantastic original . Jaws the Revenge , the fourth in a series of monster shark epics , is dead in the water . Jaws is looking a bit long in the tooth these days . Significantly worse than the rest of the series , this film is one of the worst bell-flops in recent cinema . Sargent 's enough of an action vet to grind out a watchable sequel , but too much of a TV hack to turn the arbitrary dramatics into anything but synthetic pulp . 	Illogical , tension-free , and filled with cut-rate special effects , Jaws 4 - The Revenge is a sorry chapter in a once-proud franchise .
1108206-evolution The players are obviously having a great time and their comic energy is contagious . Two decades ago , this would have been a great movie . Now , it 's just another round of leftovers . An enjoyable caper that might be a little too intense for kids . The jokes lack punch lines or appropriate setup . A comedy that ca n't walk erect . Please , Reitman , evolve already . Mediocre piece of cliched cinema . This is one dumb sci-fi comedy that does n't work in either genre . Not as dumb as you might think . Nowhere near as bad as most recent comedies ; it has real laughs , but it misses real opportunities . An excruciating misfire . 	Director Reitman tries to remake Ghostbusters , but his efforts are largely unsuccessful because the movie has too many comedic misfires .
spy kids 2 island of lost dreams Proof that you can make a sophisticated , enjoyable movie that celebrates the intelligence of children without resorting to fart jokes or crotch injuries . The talented and clever Robert Rodriguez perhaps put a little too much heart into his first film and did n't reserve enough for his second . The best part of the picture is the sibling rivalry and cooperation between Carmen and Juni , who still have great chemistry together . I did n't like the first one enough to recommend it . I liked this one even less . Robert Rodriguez follows up his 2001 smash with another comic fantasy that 'll please adults as much as kids . How fitting that the subtitle of this sequel is Island of Lost Dreams , for Rodriguez has let his vivid imagination run even more amok in waking , cinematic life . a fantastically ridiculous kids ' adventure-fantasy filled with bizarre creatures , outlandish gadgets , and anything and everything else Rodriguez 's supple imagination could conjure up It 's all great fun , and drives forward at a dizzying pace typical for writer-director Robert Rodriguez . Rodriguez 's movie , jammed with gizmos and visual effects , looks more like a bigbudget extravaganza from a Hollywood studio than a relatively modest $ 40 million movie . Director/writer Robert Rodriguez spins a razzle-dazzle tale for the small fry , filled with gadgets and monsters . 	Though the concept is no longer fresh , Spy Kids 2 is still an agreeable and energetic romp .
1179254-halloween The result , though undeniably preferable to yet another misbegotten installment of the long-exhausted franchise , certainly does n't compare to John Carpenter 's landmark original film . Even if you consider a Halloween remake sacrilege , you 've got to like a truck stop bathroom that 's even gnarlier than the one in Trainspotting . Anyone can trace a Picasso . Rob Zombie 's gut understanding of what makes '70s horror so great is unfortunately glimpsed in only short , sporadic bursts in Halloween . It was probably asking too much to hope that Zombie would come up with a film that would live up to the high standards of the original , but what he has given us is so completely worthless that it pales in comparison to `` Halloween : Resurrection '' Check your calendar , and then cross out Halloween -- at least for this year . Abhorrent . Halloween is , objectively speaking and without thinking about the original , a crummy film . As a remake of the Carpenter movie it 's a heinous abortion . The Batman Begins of slasher movies , and one of the more frightening stabathons of recent years . A lot of modern horror has become more synonymous with horrifying rather than terrifying , the chief difference being the latter also provokes feelings of psychological unease . 	Rob Zombie does n't bring many new ideas to the table in Halloween , making it another bloody disappointment for fans of the franchise .
the armstrong lie 2013 Gibney may not be as biting as in his previous work ... The man [ Armstrong ] still feels like an enigma . Beautifully shot and edited , even after you know the horrible things Armstrong did to good people who only wanted the truth to come out , you ca n't help but realize how charming he is . I hated to see it end . A well made film about one messed up dude . Power must never be mistaken for virtue , warns Gibney , and self-regulation does n't work . Even the best of us need to be kept an eye on . Alex Gibney delivers not just a detailed , full-access account of his subject , in all his defiance , hubris and tentative self-reckoning , but also a layered inquiry into the culture of competitiveness , celebrity , moral relativism and hypocrisy . Anyone holding a strong opinion about Lance Armstrong 's dramatic rise to the top of competitive cycling and sour fall from grace should see Alex Gibney 's from-the-horse's-mouth documentary . Where Gibney 's film succeeds is in the way it lays bare the theatre of the Tour de France to mug bystanders like me who assumed it was a straightforward cycling competition . Given Armstrong 's squirminess on the couch , you 'll wish this profile had traded a portion of its deep background for a little in-the-moment boldness . As an embarrassingly obvious liar , I am constantly fascinated by how others do it , and Gibney gives you many opportunities to study a master . Gibney gives the truth as full an airing as seems humanly possible , given that the subject is a world-class liar . 	Smartly constructed and scathingly sharp , The Armstrong Lie presents an effective indictment of its unscrupulous subject -- as well as the sports culture that spawned him .
hoot One wishes that a film about the fight against a bland restaurant chain were more piquant . But movies for tweens , like burrowing owls , are an endangered species that need preservation . Hoot has its heart in the right place , but I have been unable to locate its brain . Hoot may be warm and fuzzy with its adorable owls , triumphant kids and inviting Florida groves . But its forced , innocuous humor is unlikely to amuse anyone but the very young -- and the extremely forgiving . Promoting environmental conservation , this bland family film never generates much interest in either its human or animal participants . I question the message of Hoot , a family movie that tacitly encourages kids to vandalize property and behave like little ecoterrorists . One more reminder that kids are better off with a book than a middling movie adaptation of a book . An environmentally conscious Newbery Honor novel has been turned into a disappointing and uninspired movie . Do n't let the Carl Hiaasen pedigree fool you : Hoot is an Afterschool Special too crummy to give a hoot about . ... the cute kiddie version of an environmental protest song . Lame and preachy . 	Lacking energy and humor , Hoot is a ho-hum story of eco-awareness that falls flat as a pancake .
comedian Digital-video documentary about stand-up comedians is a great glimpse into a very different world . Um olhar fascinante sobre os bastidores da comdia stand-up . [ Charles and Streiner 's ] behind-the-scenes look at how professional comedians actually put together an act will be a revelation to most people who are n't in the business of being funny . It 's a pleasure to see Seinfeld griping about the biz with buddies Chris Rock , Garry Shandling and Colin Quinn . Sometimes , comedians can be just as amusing backstage as they are when facing an audience . A portrait of an artist . At once emotional and richly analytical , the Cosby-Seinfeld encounter alone confirms the serious weight behind this superficially loose , larky documentary . Feels a little too carefully crafted to be absolutely truthful , but nonetheless yields rich food for thought about the pains of the creative process and the insecurities of the artistic temperament . Almost as unsettling as it is wildly entertaining . The film provides some great insight into the neurotic mindset of all comics -- even those who have reached the absolute top of the game . 	Comedian is an insightful look at the hard work of creating comedy .
music and lyrics The cinematic equivalent of a VH1 special . For all the predictability and plot contrivances , this tuneful rom-com -- like the silly love songs it both spoofs and embraces -- proves surprisingly entertaining . A watchable , workaday rom-com with business as usual from the leads , a bland plot and inconsistent characters . I mean , who does n't want some love and romance , especially if it 's indulgent and totally unbelievable ? When it comes to self-deprecating humor , it does n't get much better than Hugh Grant . `` Music and Lyrics '' argues that pop songs are poetry , and in the tradition of Walt Whitman , the film proceeds to celebrate itself . Often smart and sometimes very funny . Una comedia romntica realmente menor y predecible , con alguna irona sobre la msica pop de los aos '80 ( y la de ahora ) . The first great date film of the year . This is Barrymore 's burden , that she consistently resists generic business even as she makes it tolerable . The next step is to challenge the business outright . 	Music & Lyrics is a light and pleasant romantic comedy that succeeds because of the considerable charm of its co-stars . The music segments featuring Hugh Grant are worth the price of admission .
still mine Takes full advantage of the ornery authority and distinctive Thomas Hart Bentonesque physiognomy of its star , James Cromwell , in a rare lead role . Written and directed with an uncommon straightforwardness ... For those who thought `` Amour '' too sadistic or the recent `` Unfinished Song '' too sentimental , here 's a senior love story with the realities of aging that falls right in the middle . It is so sweetly portrayed it will make you eager to get old . Still Mine mourns days gone by without being mawkish and meditates on age without being maudlin . Writer-director Michael McGowan covers all the bases here -- the long-standing romance between the aging couple , the hovering concerns of their son and daughter , the constant head-butting with the building inspector -- with well-paced confidence . The mounting structure-and the subsequent stop-work orders-frames the couple 's reflections about the approaching uncertainties of their twilight years , which they deliver with humor and affection . When Still Mine 's title reflects the sincerity and adoration we witness between two very private people - rather than a declaration of ownership - McGowan 's movie is worthy of the wonderful cast he 's attracted . This movie does not work without Cromwell ; plain and simple . Still Mine will leave viewers with a lump in the throat and a hopeful determination to face administrative adversity with as much stoicism and grace . 	James Cromwell and Genevive Bujold are outstanding in this tender , affecting , insightful drama about the bonds and sacrifices of marriage .
1005973-diva It flows between its romance , drama and thriller plots more smoothly than today 's best genre-blenders . Fabulous French flick An endlessly-inventive , edge-of-your-seat crime caper blessed with an abundance of amusing twist and turns , a stirring soundtrack and unorthodox cinematography which all add up to a sumptuous cinematic classic among the very best movies ever made . Any film with this much stylistic assurance is impossible to fully resist . The most exciting debut in years , it is unified by the extraordinary decor - colour supplement chic meets pop art surrealism - which creates a world of totally fantastic reality situated four-square in contemporary Paris . Diva , as a lifestyle , a fantasy , a model for alienation and solipsism and eccentricity , has gone deep into all of us . ... frightfully chic-looking ... -- - a drama/thriller that is also quite funny -- -this is the first film in which I truly realized the importance of cinematography . Director Jean Jacques-Beineix 's pop art pastiche is a glittering mix of artifice and genuine cool with its intricate yet effortless thriller plot enacted by some of the screen 's most individual and eccentric characters ; its combination of playful sexiness Incredibly stylish and visually ravishing -- arguably to a fault -- Jean-Jacques Beineixs audacious debut has aged well . 	Beineix combines unique cinematography , an intelligent script , and a brilliant soundtrack to make Diva a stylishly memorable film .
prom night Look . Let 's just toss some pig 's blood on this baby and call it a day . Outside of a brief clip from `` Ca n't Hardly Wait , '' there is absolutely nothing in `` Prom Night '' that is even remotely scary . Rates a solid C . I liked the way in which the teens find ever-more elaborate pretexts to take themselves off , alone , into the darkness to investigate this or that . This may not be one of the worst films of all time -- that 's a pretty tough list to crack . But it is definitely one of the stupidest . One of the most memorable nights in a teenager 's young life is grist for a pretty unmemorable movie in this tame horror entry that follows conventions to the letter . Director Nelson McCormick has assembled a fairly valuable compendium of almost every kind of false scare known to exist . It 's a bore , even taking into account unintentional moments of humor that resulted in audience members jeering . This is a case study for Filmmaking Ineptitude 101 . It 's tepid fare with a vacuous cast , particularly when compared with the previous version featuring Jamie Lee Curtis as the scream queen . Every cheap-scare trick in the genre is deployed , but so feebly that not one of them works . 	A dim and predictable remake of an already dull slasher film , this Prom Night fails to be memorable .
liar liar Close to an ideal jumping-off point for Carrey , who spends the better part of an hour grotesquely physicalizing his scummy lawyer 's struggle with being obliged to utter cold , hard facts . The funniest movie I have seen in a very long time . A lot of fun , especially when Carrey reels off an entire lifetime 's worth of driving offences to a nearby cop . Oh , I was n't expecting much , really . And it was much better than Dumb and Dumber . Carrey 's willingness to do anything for a laugh , like pounding his head with a toilet seat , almost pays off . The effect is surprisingly touching . No matter what you think of his humor , by gum , the man works hard . It isn ( TM ) t for everyone , but neither is peanut butter with jam . All-in-all , Liar Liar is pretty good fun , and it represents one of Carrey 's most entertaining movies to date . Jim Carrey Jim Carrey . With a little more concentration on the script and a little more subdued Carrey , this could have been a much better film . 	Despite its thin plot , Liar Liar is elevated by Jim Carrey 's exuberant brand of physical humor , and the result is a laugh riot that helped to broaden the comedian 's appeal .
living daylights `` Finally , a James Bond movie that Ian Fleming can be proud of . Dalton is a lean , mean and bold Bond . Full of great action and featuring a romantic sub-plot that elevates this above most other 007 adventures . '' More serious , tougher version of Bond has plenty of violence . Dalton brought to the part a strong dramatic presence , a heightened sensitivity , a greater human vulnerability than ever before , and a decided seriousness . This Bond is as fast on his feet as with his wits ; an ironic scowl creases his face ; he 's battle ready yet war-weary . Dalton , with his athletic sort of Brit-yuppie work ethic and romantic streak , comes out all right . A pure back-to-basics action-adventure spy drama which mostly delivers . Dalton gets a chance to demonstrate a fascinating , if slightly too actorly take on [ James Bond ] . ... ultimately comes off as one of the most ineffective and flat-out dull entries within the ongoing series . A very weak entry The casting of Timothy Dalton as James Bond in this 15th entry into the adventures of 007 is widely considered a classic mistake : Dalton is n't suave like Sean Connery or even Roger Moore . 	In The Living Daylights , newcomer Timothy Dalton plays James Bond with more debonair seriousness than preceding installments , and the result , is energetic , exciting , and occasionally weighty .
molly Molly is a mess . Half-hearted Flowers for Algernon story . None of the actors seem to really believe it . A disjointed , incoherent mess . It is moving and has been well-crafted with much care , and it allows Shue , Eckhart , Jane and Jill Hennessy as Molly 's doctor to make solid impressions . Unfortunately , despite a praise worthy performance by Elisabeth Shue , the movie did not leave us with a lasting impression or emotional connection . 89 minutes of Shue 's strained Acting display is 89 more than anyone should ever have to endure . In spite of its lofty goal to remind the masses that the disabled are human beings with feelings just like everyone else , Molly abounds with cliches about the very people it purports to represent . Bizarrely inept . Shamelessly sentimental . Beautiful as she is , Elisabeth Shue is simply impossible to watch without cringing whenever she tries to do autistic . 	Molly never really elevates above uninspired , cliche-ridden moments .
shawshank redemption If the film is perhaps a little slow in its middle passages , maybe that is part of the idea , too , to give us a sense of the leaden passage of time , before the glory of the final redemption . Shawshank is what might be described as an ethereal prison picture , if that 's not an oxymoron . A testament to the human spirit ... With his gift for rapt pauses , for caressing just the right syllable , Freeman can make a speech like that sound like one of the philosophical nuggets of the ages . The Shawshank Redemption continually abandons plausibility in order to celebrate the triumph of hope over despair , of decency over cruelty , of justice over injustice . It 's an old-school melodrama at heart , sturdy and forthright and upstanding , but without a whisper of complexity or wit . The Shawshank Redemption sprawls out over a leisurely 142 minutes , operating with the same unflagging patience of its protagonist . Freeman , who is simply a great actor , a man who has never struck a false note in his career , both narrates this tale and anchors it with his authoritative playing . A 'life-affirming ' tale about life imprisonment , The Shawshank Redemption is the kind of old-fashioned entertainment that is easily overvalued in an era of diminishing expectations . It 's a simple story elegantly , cleverly told , not to mention expertly acted . 	The Shawshank Redemption is an uplifting , deeply satisfying prison drama with sensitive direction and fine performances .
1072381-time to kill This may be a case where you have to read the book to appreciate the film , but if that 's true , the film has n't done its job . Sandra Bullock , given an extremely misleading first billing , turns in what may be her best work yet as the cocky legal prodigy who smells a ticket to notoriety in the much-publicized case ... The best Grisham to hit the screen yet . Really not moving and perhaps not even greatly intelligent in the way that To Kill a Mockingbird was , but it gives a feel for Southern politics and law better than other Grisham films and it tells its story engrossingly . A likable -- maybe even lovable -- movie . A Time to Kill has it all . Justice may be blind , but rarely have courtroom dramas presumed quite so heavily on cultural myopia as this heinous version of John Grisham 's first novel . Director Joel Schumacher and screenwriter Akiva Goldsman seem incapable of emphasizing what 's important and relegating the rest to secondary status . Insight into black/white relations is superficial -- disappointing when you consider that the moral of the story is supposed to be how large a role race plays in the execution of justice . Proves that imaginative lawyers can sometimes tease justice out of her hiding places . 	Overlong and superficial , A Time to Kill nonetheless succeeds on the strength of its skillful craftsmanship and top-notch performances .
friends with benefits An unfunny , unromantic attempt at a sex comedy with some of the most boring bedroom scenes ever filmed . Friends benefits from likable Justin Timberlake , Mila Kunis The central couple 's strong chemistry and a stream of lively side characters keep us involved and entertained . If you 've ever wondered why romantic comedy is in such a sorry state , watch these two appealing actors go through every false note in the book in a movie so disingenuous that the neither premise , the climax , nor the resolution ever feels remotely real . This movie wants you to know that it is n't one of those stupid Hollywood romantic comedies . The characters talk about `` those '' movies disparagingly and even watch a parody of that kind of film on TV ... A savvy , satirical date movie that holds the conventions of romantic comedy up to self-aware spoofing while still delivering the goods . One of the strengths of Friends with Benefits is that Timberlake and Kunis are likeable and display enough chemistry to keep us interested in their inevitable pairing . You should always be ashamed of yourself if you are copying Ashton Kutcher . Through its magnetic stars , funny crudity , and observation of people 's foibles in relationships , Friends with Benefits consummates the deal that viewers enter with romantic comedies . With its central theme of sex without commitment , this attractive screwball comedy has more going for it than its premise implies . It 's playful and funny 	Friends with Benefits adds nothing new to its well-worn rom-com formula , but the chemistry between Justin Timberlake and Mila Kunis is almost enough to carry the movie by itself .
hoop dreams Novelistic in scope and texture , the film does justice to the complexity of these boys ' lives and opens up exciting new possibilities for nonfiction films . A heady dose of the American dream and the American nightmare combined -- a numbing investigation of how one point on an exam or one basket or turnover in a game can make all the difference in a family 's fortunes . This is the best type of documentary , giving an intensely personal story you ca n't help but become involved in , and also raises fundamental issues about America in the 90s . Steve James 's remarkable example of cinma vrit tells the problematic journey of high school basketball stars William Gates and Arthur Agee , two African-American teenagers growing up in Chicago ghettos . Film making at its absolute best . Unforgettable . It 's the closest movie equivalent to the great American novel I 've seen in years . The most powerful movie about sports ever made . It slam-dunks documentaries that are so close-up to their subjects they can not note the irony of adult commercialism and hard-sell hoopla overwhelming barely literate kids . One of the most widely discussed and well-received documentaries of the decade . 	One of the most critically acclaimed documentaries of all time , Hoop Dreams is a rich , complex , heartbreaking , and ultimately deeply rewarding film that uses high school hoops as a jumping-off point to explore issues of race , class , and education in modern America .
never let me go 2010 Movies about banality are , for reasons that are all too clear , often banal themselves . This is a hard movie to shake . That 's a good thing , by the way . Not as devastating as Kazuo Ishiguro 's astounding novel , this heart achingly beautiful film still resonates . An intriguing and mostly successful combination of science fiction and chamber drama . An impeccably told story that failed to break my heart Hamstrung by a serious bummer of a premise that suffocates the production and leaves it too wrapped up in its self-perceived grand , conceptual significance . This is not the way human beings behave . But , suspending disbelief on this , the rest of the film is very well made and it does allow some important perspectives on thorny moral issues . I came to this film knowing nothing about it , except that it was based on the highly-acclaimed novel by Kazuo Ishiguru . I had no foreknowledge of its story or premise-and I 'm glad ... The pupils ' failure to question their fate plays more like lethargy than tragically repressed emotion . Everything is in its place , including the overly tidied-up meaning . Understated , ethereal British elegance in its style and cinematography ... churlish and unforgiving in love and life , and one of the most discreetly disturbing films you will see . 	With Never Let Me Go , Mark Romanek has delivered a graceful adaptation that captures the spirit of the Ishiguro novel -- which will be precisely the problem for some viewers .
mondays in the sun Thick with powerful , understated , deeply empathetic performances -- and it needs them . It 's hard to feel sorry for a bunch of welfare cases who sit around drinking and barely even trying to find new jobs . Javier Bardem plays the part with all the pent-up animal rage of a young Robert De Niro Instead of pacing , it offers terrific performances and a wonderful sense of small-time tragedy [ De Aranoa is ] a gentle , realist social worker , and the well-acted movie he 's made to showcase his humanism is incredibly moving . A piece of sophisticated , subtle filmmaking that is both thoughtful and thought-provoking . Mondays in the Sun is a deeply ethical movie that has a universal quality to its depiction of the soul-destroying capacities of unemployment . In these days of cutbacks and belt-tightening , its story has a strong resonance . Bardem proves once again , as he has in movies ' past that he is one of the most talented actors that can be called upon time and time again in the Spanish film world ... a funny and compassionate tribute to the unemployed . Bottom feeder , out of work adventurers busying themselves with basically anything that will keep the terror of an abyss called the future at bay . 	Javier Bardem gives an outstanding performance in this hought-provoking ( though occasionally plodding ) movie about the effects of unemployment on a group of former shipyard workers .
1158195-marie antoinette Marie Antoinette may be Coppola 's weakest movie , but it is far from a failure . Where Marie Antoinette fares best is in its examination of the royal life as a treadmill of constantly winding boredom . Dazed and confused , it feels like a teenager 's diary , read aloud over some awesome mixtape . The film is better as a curiosity than as entertainment . Although it is purposely devoid of substance , it is still devoid of substance . A cotton candy account that plays loosely with the truth in trying to be hip , contemporary and pink . Sofia Coppola keeps making these aptly crafted , perfectly vapid little films . She 's the arthouse Tony Scott . This could be the story of Paris Hilton if she were to be married off to an impotent French Prince instead of dating meatheads armed with camcorders . As a serious film , only an American could love Marie Antoinette . To the French , it must be gravely insulting . As an unwitting camp , it may have a great future . Coppola does n't ask us to take Marie Antoinette as she thinks she was but as she probably was : a little girl who did n't know better . 	Lavish imagery and a daring soundtrack set this film apart from most period dramas ; in fact , style complete takes precedence over plot and character development in Coppola 's vision of the doomed queen .
whiplash 2014 Teller grabs you with his commitment and drags you along through all the agony . It 's one of the most disturbing entertaining movies I 've seen in a long while . Utterly brilliant and intense . If Chazelle 's primary objective was simply to present two grossly exaggerated and unsympathetic characters , then he 's succeeded in some style . A bit of a letdown in terms of actual characterization and music appreciation , writer-director Damien Chazelle 's film is at least a thrilling litany of mind games and physical punishments . Whiplash is somewhat of a revelation in both its lead actors and in its ability to overcome a troublesome second act , and like many of the best films it also leaves audiences talking and debating the merits of its conclusion . In a bracing , complex turn that better earn a best supporting actor nomination , Simmons makes a terrifying jazz drill sergeant and one of the year 's best villains . `` Whiplash '' could become the first film to be picketed by the soccer moms of America . Let battle commence . In a nutshell : Judged on its own merits , Whiplash is superb : slick , authentic and infectious . Come the last beat , you 'll probably be exhausted . But you 'll also feel entertained , inspired and wonderfully alive . The ovation starts here . 	Intense , inspiring , and well-acted , Whiplash is a brilliant sophomore effort from director Damien Chazelle and a riveting vehicle for stars J.K. Simmons and Miles Teller .
10010208-chocolate JeeJa Yanin is a sensational discovery but this mixed assortment of high kicks and even higher melodrama may be an imperfect vehicle for her . The heart of the film may be its action sequences but , even outside the battle arena , 'Chocolate ' is a nicely characterised and consistently likeable piece of work . A bizarre , often tasteless , but never dull Thai martial arts movie . Chocolate is risibly sentimental even for a genre not known for its emotional sophistication . Vimistananda is nothing less than an awe-inspiring force of nature . ... the fights are terrific , tightly choreographed with a good sense of ensemble movement and shot in long takes that preserve the fluidity of the action ... Enjoyable thriller . Character development and cogent storytelling are in short supply . Yeah , so ? Is it radical or offensive ? I really do n't know . It certainly got my attention . Unfortunately , the martial arts action is only half the movie - the rest is badly acted and gory . 	Chocolate is a bizarre martial arts flick , with a slushy plot , an unusual protagonist , and breathtaking stunts .
sherrybaby You 'd swear Maggie Gyllenhaal grew up on the streets after seeing her in this gritty indie about a recovering heroin addict trying to go straight . The writing and directing by Laurie Collyer express an admirable naturalness and eschews rose-tinted solutions . Maggie Gyllenhaal is an actress you simply can not take your eyes off of . Just as she did in the dark , sadomasochistic comedy `` Secretary , '' Gyllenhaal raises her share of eyebrows here , though for a whole host of different reasons . It 's the movie for you if you liked the pessimistic street view of Half Nelson . The film itself is a collection of emotional highs and mostly lows for Gyllenhaal , who elevates it all far above the slim story . `` Sherrybaby '' is an insightful and penetrating drama that never condescends or sentimentalizes its subject . Maggie Gyllenhaal gives a tour de force performance that is not to be missed . Gyllenhaal could n't be better in service of a film that seems to focus on the wrong character ; the more interesting point of view would be Bobby 's , a gallant , unglamorous guy who 's trying to hold his family together in the midst of Hurricane Sherry . Like Vera Farmiga in DOWN TO THE BONE , Gyllenhaal creates a full-bodied portrait of a woman struggling with addictions . And like Felicity Huffman in TRANSAMERICA , Gyllenhaal elevates a flawed motion picture to a higher level . As an actress , Ms. Gyllenhaal seems to steer clear of any parts that seek to exploit an audience 's weakness for conventionally happy endings . Her films are therefore always worth seeing . 	Maggie Gyllenhaal delivers riveting performance as a recovering drug addict in a depressing and not entirely believable movie .
star trek nemesis Instead of contriving a climactic hero 's death for the beloved-major- character-who-shall- remain-nameless , why not invite some genuine spontaneity into the film by having the evil aliens ' laser guns actually hit something for once ? A thinly plotted , anonymously directed film . It 's been almost 10 years since `` Star Trek : The Next Generation '' ended in 1994 , but you 'd never know it by watching the latest film in the science fiction franchise , `` Star Trek : Nemesis . '' Not only is it talky , but the talk is repetitious , incoherent , and spoken in a soft whisper , as if the actors feared disturbing the audience in its restful slumbers . Without an intriguing adversary for Capt . Jean-Luc Picard and crew , it 's all for naught . Feels like a cold old man going through the motions . It does n't deliver anything new to the series , and even fans might find parts distinctly slow , but it finally hits most of the right buttons . A cheapo space battle that has all the cool allure of a disco-dancing Dad . Sorry , Captain , our dilithium crystals are run down completely . The Star Trek franchise is dead in the water ! Somewhere towards the end of the movie , exhaustion set in . 	Nemesis has an interesting premise and some good action scenes , but the whole affair feels a bit tired .
dr dolittle 2 While it 'd be silly to hold a movie like this to too strict a standard , one should expect it to at least respect its own premise . It 's been said that if a film uses a lot of narration , it 's because its makers either do n't know how to tell their story or have no story to tell . Well , this film has more narration ... than any movie in recent memory . Dr. Dolittle 2 is so full of comic excrement that you may find yourself looking down as you leave the theater . A fast , fat paycheck for star Eddie Murphy . I 'm not sure Dolittle is bad enough to have original author Hugh Lofting spinning in his grave , but it ai n't no Babe , either . A likeable , sporadically funny movie that will satisfy the less demanding tot . Even with its flaws , Dr. Dolittle 2 is a decent matinee movie for the kiddies . An energetic , pleasing family movie , with plenty of clever humor and a cast of endearing animals . Eddie Murphy funny ? Not here . Warmer and fuzzier than the first film , though every bit as tedious . 	Although there are laughs to be had in Dr. Dolittle 2 , its preoccupation with toilet humor and Murphy 's restrained performance makes this a missed opportunity .
nosferatu the vampyre Nothing goes bang in the night . Rather there is a continuous unsettling drone screech of everything going wrong all the way through . A competent , atmospheric remake , but , considering the quality of Murnau 's masterwork , is it necessary ? A maddening case , this Herzog : Beneath the klutzy dramaturgy and simplistic ideology there 's a genuine cinematic poet who occasionally breaks out . To be honest , Kinski would scare me if I met him on the street ! The father of the vampire movies . Despite the black & white is very frightening . Nosferatu the Vampyre Playing to the visual and narrative strengths of the original , Werner Herzog still succeeds in imprinting the material with his own unique sensibility . Slow , contemplative , and strikingly evocative The movie challenges us with images and emotions that have hardly ever been seen before . Sumptuous yet earthy , philosophical yet humorous , it 's a masterpiece in its own right . There is a haunting if languorous quality that allows his magnificent-looking interpretation to exist on its own terms . 	Stunning visuals from Werner Herzog and an intense portrayal of the famed bloodsucker from Klaus Kinski make this remake of Nosferatu a horror classic in its own right .
beavis and butt head do america Whatever your I.Q. , it 's really one of the more enjoyable animated films since Snow White . Unfortunately , there are no video critiques here , just yawn-inspiring stretches in which very little happens . A hilarious adaptation of an equally hysterical series . An old saying states that too much of anything is n't good , and this is a prime example . Those who deplore Beavis and Butt-Head are confusing the messengers with the message . I just do n't find the guys funny , and this feature-length visit is a whole lotta headache stretched over too little material . Its idiocy is irresistible . It 's as good as any animated feature about two teenage morons could ever hope to be . A solid , comic film , filled with humor and wittiness at a gutter level rarely achieved in film . All I know about film criticism , I learned from Beavis and Butt-Head ! 	Beavis and Butt-Head Do America is unabashedly offensive , unapologetically stupid , and unexpectedly funny .
1089671-13th floor I have n't seen a film in the last 20 years that has such bad lighting and poor choice of film stock . This is a film about deeply confused people that seems likely to put viewers in a state of deep confusion for most of its running time . [ A ] stylish but overplotted and ultimately illogical combination of science fiction , mystery and romance . Rehashes every Star Trek : The Next Generation episode where the holodeck goes haywire . Never quite gets off the ground either , since none of its characters , human or simulated , is all that soulful to begin with . The roles are underwritten and , especially in D'Onofrio 's case , overacted . As compelling as a knock-knock joke ! The film starts strong presenting a captivating scenario , then somewhere in the second half dips into a sappy romance . In the post Dark City , Matrix , eXistenZ cinematic world , it has a decided 'been there , done that ' sensibility . Most of the surprises in this intriguing premise are already being used by eXistenZ and The Matrix . 	Bad script and confusing plot undermine the movie 's impressive visuals .
how the grinch stole christmas A holiday treat on par with unwrapping a pretty box full of underwear and socks . [ It ] could have certainly benefited from a little more of that mischievous nature . Unfortunately , Ron Howard is the Grinch who stole Christmas from Jim Carrey . Carrey is superb , swamped in makeup and sounding like a cross between Hitchcock and The Honey Monster . The heart of this movie is n't two sizes too small ; it 's just slightly misplaced . The movie seems content to operate without a soul . It subverts Dr. Seuss 's point in exactly the same way . And the result is a bizarre and uncomfortable film . Any tale that critiques the over-the-top commercialism of our society is right on track . Nobody wants to leave Grinch feeling grouchy . And probably nobody will . How the Grinch Stole Christmas is a holiday winner . 	Jim Carrey shines as the Grinch . Unfortunately , it 's not enough to save this movie . You 'd be better off watching the TV cartoon .
mcfarland usa Warm , sensitive performances and telling details A feel-good movie that earns all those good feelings , `` McFarland , USA '' might be running on a predetermined track , but the heart it shows along the journey is what makes it a winner . In ways large and small , McFarland USA recognizes the problems inherent in the `` white savior '' premise and does what it can to address them , to surprisingly affecting ends . The lovely McFarland , USA hits the expected mile markers on the inspirational-sports-movie path while slowing down enough to craft a rich portrait of a place and its inhabitants . As it is , it 's an underdog story that follows the obvious track , though it should get there just fine if you 're pulling for it . Better than you might think , thanks to strong work from Costner and a cast of fresh faces . McFarland , USA is well-intentioned and largely inoffensive , but as any coach knows , good intentions are n't enough to go the distance . This culture-clash drama delivers an honest , moving story about the power individuals and communities can gain when defying expectations . The kids are a likeable bunch and Costner , as ever , imbues the hooey with enough gravitas to make you care . Kevin Costner never steals the spotlight from the characters who play his cross-country team in this heartwarming , character-driven film . 	Disney 's inspirational sports drama formula might be old hat , but McFarland , USA proves it still works -- especially with a talented director and eminently likable star in the mix .
land of the dead The main problem of Land of the Dead is that it 's lame . Well , George A. Romero has made another political statement . And yes , there just happens to be flesh-eating zombies in it . Effects , including random head explosions and other bloody body parts , are state of the low art . Fails to deliver on its class warfare premise , fizzling out just when it should be heating up . If Land of the Dead is too familiar to be unnerving , there 's at least satisfaction in Romero making it such nasty fun . About as lively as a piece of roadkill . The latest installment could well be Romero 's masterpiece . Land of the Dead is a perfectly adequate horror romp , but it 's hard to imagine anyone remembering it five years from now . Land 's gruesomely creative zombie atrocities stretch an R rating 's limits like a bloody tendon about to snap . Romero 's long-awaited zombie horror flick delivers lashings of gore , violent action sequences and big dollops of heavy-handed satire in equal measure . 	George A. Romero 's latest entry in his much-vaunted Dead series is not as fresh as his genre-inventing original , Night of the Living Dead . But Land of the Dead does deliver on the gore and zombies-feasting-on-flesh action .
transporter 2 ..if it had the gumption to elevate its marketable value and challenge the notion of not being just another brainless and bombastic entry into the `` crash and bash '' sweepstakes Is a lot of fun , and I enjoyed it in all its ludicrous devices , and idiocy ... If you actually go into this picture attempting to find any common sense in its plotline , you might want to have your head examined afterwards ... I do n't mind exaggerated action sequences ( in fact , I kind of like them ) but Transporter 2 does n't surround them with anything else . The ending sinks the enterprise ( both literally and figuratively ) with bad FX and subpar action-movie one-liners . ... the plot has some crucially unclear exposition , and the stunt concepts are insanely implausible ... but , somehow , that does n't stop the whole from being absurdly pleasurable In essence , it 's more of the same . there 's no denying that Statham is once again so cool that bad plot , bad physics and bad acting by the supporting cast are very easily forgotten . It 's not a bad sequel , but the original was , well , original . There are some overplayed elements , but the action is snappy and the danger is credible . Transporter 2 is so lightweight and frivolous , it makes one of Roger Moore 's Bond epics look like Crime and Punishment . 	A stylish and more focused sequel to The Transporter , the movie is over-the-top fun for fans of the first movie .
1029112-alice in wonderland The film is dazzling in its use of color and odd shapes and is enhanced by the distinctive voices of Ed Wynn as the Mad Hatter , Sterling Holloway as the Cheshire Cat , Jerry Colonna as the March Hare , and Verna Felton as the Queen of Hearts . Despite nice elements in this Oscar-nominated Disney feature , the movie was at the time a commercial flop , but deserves to be seen . Fifty years on the movie is clearly due a reappraisal . It 's colourful , fun and as surreal as Disney is ever likely to get , this is n't as good as the books , but works as a cute introduction to them . Surreal Disney classic with wild-card characters . Disney 's animated musical adaptation of Lewis Carroll 's classic is enjoyable and contains a few twisted touches and slanted visuals . Alice 's world is far loonier and mad - and has more teeth . It was a fine departure from the fairy tales of Cinderella and Snow White . Disney 's frantic take on Lewis Carroll may lack much of the book 's illogical charm , but it does contain one of the great proto-psychedelic sequences in cinema . It might not come close to a 5-star Disney Classic , but the breezy animation and colorful characters salvage an annoyingly fractured narrative . Charm and relative simplicity play like a time capsule of animated movies past , which remind us of the Disney products that captivated our grandparents . An emotionally chilly exercise ... At the same time it is gorgeous indeed , one of the most singular movies in the Disney canon visually . 	A good introduction to Lewis Carroll 's classic , Alice in Wonderland boasts some of the Disney canon 's most surreal and twisted images .
american psycho much like the 80 's era that it personifies Mary Harron asks what 's more unnerving - exaggerated , imagined violence or vacuous realities some wish to be real , psychosis as much in the construct as the character . Thus , `` Psycho 's '' savagery goes beyond a simple screed against 1980s excess and greed . A diretora Mary Harron desempenha admiravelmente bem seu papel , criando um encadeamento lgico que , analisado em retrospecto , expe a linha de raciocnio de Bateman . American Psycho is seamless in its inability to engage emotionally , message or no message . An incisive commentary about the emptiness and rapacity of important people . The film makes wonderfully unsettling entertainment ; crucially -- and gloriously -- Bale nails Bateman with a sublimely dead-eyed and deadpan performance . a potentially sensationalistic film that has become -- for lack of a better word -- boring . Bale is outstanding as Bateman . Funny , pungent , and weirdly gripping . The best monster movie in years . 	If it falls short of the deadly satire of Bret Easton Ellis 's novel , American Psycho still finds its own blend of horror and humor , thanks in part to a fittingly creepy performance by Christian Bale .
road to perdition Road to Perdition is ... a self-regarding , humorless film smitten with its own gravitas . It 's so motionless it becomes a slide show about how to shoot a gangster film . Brooding , meditative and gorgeously dreary , Road to Perdition is in many ways the most masculine 'chick flick ' around . Road to Perdition grabbed my attention simply by being a solid story told with style and intelligence . It 's the best film of the year so far , the benchmark against which all other Best Picture contenders should be measured . 'Perdition ' can be mesmerizing , and Hanks is at the sullen , sad center of it all . The best gangster movie since The Godfather . A brilliant , yet gritty look at the life of a mafia hitman who turns against the man who treated him like a son only to prove himself to his own child . Should have been an exciting , thought-provoking artistic masterpiece . Mendes knows his way around a gangster movie , resurrecting the genre by grafting it to a Western 's confrontational landscape . Every era births a movie that captures its uncertain zeitgeist while pointing the way toward release . For the fearful here , and for the bloody now , this is that movie . 	Somber , stately , and beautifully mounted , Sam Mendes ' Road to Perdition is a well-crafted mob movie that explores the ties between fathers and sons .
underdog About all the film offers is some bad CGI effect work , a bored-sounding Jason Lee providing the voice of the heroic canine and lots of dumb slapstick . Apparently , the idea of a beagle in a red sweater fighting diminutive Peter Dinklage was n't enough to power the laugh department , so we have our hero cracking wise about everyday dog problems like eating vomit or poop . I have an idea for the sequel : Underdog Vs. Michael Vick . Oh , there 's reason to fear . 'Underdog ' the movie is here . 'Underdog ' features some amusing antics by a very cute Beagle in the title role , but it 's not quite the treat I expected . The film is a smug and contemptuous mess from beginning to end that is likely to bore little kids and aggravate any adult still holding fond memories of the character from their own childhoods . Not too many new tricks left for the old Underdog . Seeing realistic animals in feats of derring-do - or kicking each other around , action-movie style - is more disturbing than cute . Despite the talent on show , there 's little to distinguish this from any other bland family comedy . Good one-liners and dog tricks , but no best in show . 	Underdog is a mostly forgettable adaptation that relies far too heavily on recycled material and sloppy production .
grease Its sensibility is not tied to the past but to a free-wheeling , well informed , high-spirited present . Randal Kleiser 's 1978 musical , set in the Fifties , has some horrible acting but the kind of exuberance that has made it a cult classic . I 'm not saying that fans should avoid this DVD ( as if I could even talk you out of it ) , but considering the movie - this DVD should be a hell of a lot better . If ever there were a critic-proof movie , a film effectively ingrained into the pop culture world , it 's Grease . The friskiness of the performers , the choreography by Patricia Birch and most of all Travolta 's phenomenal charm give it its value . Limp , cheaply made . Lively , fresh and bright , Grease still stands tall and is destined to become a classic with its memorable , toe-tapping songs , imaginative choreography , plus the dazzle of John Travolta and Olivia Newton John . Leva-nos a lembrar de como era gostoso o tempo de colgio , quando a maior responsabilidade que tnhamos era decidir o que fazer nos sbados noite . E com quem . Anonymous and semi-competent filmmaking with no real personality , pepped up by the fake energy . Its flashy opportunism ( nostalgia pitched squarely at an audience too young to even recall the era ) quickly becomes very irritating . 	Grease is a pleasing , energetic musical with infectiously catchy songs and an ode to young love that never gets old .
beautiful girls This film really succeeds with its warm treatment of ordinary hang-ups -- no life-shattering revelations or pain repressed since childhood , just the genuine , everyday trials of life . With only a few lapses , Scott Rosenberg 's script is so good it outshines his much-praised Things to Do in Denver When You 're Dead . It does n't always take you where you 'd like it to go , but that 's all right . It 's the women who break the monotony of this dudes-in-flux saga ... A routine entry in the genre , with nothing in particular to recommend it , aside from an attractive cast . Natalie Portman steals all the scenes with Timothy Hutton and lights up the movie ... What 's nicest about the film is the way it treasures the good feelings people can have for one another . In a relationship that skirts bad taste , Hutton and Portman make tender movie magic , giving this big-screen spin on Friends its only moments of true romantic yearning . While apt at times , often it seems overwrought and muddled . Natalie Portman , as a 13-year-old on whom Hutton develops a strangely affecting crush , is a delight . 	A warm , thoughtful dramedy about male insecurity , Beautiful Girls is buoyed by an excellent cast - particularly Natalie Portman in a stunning early role .
we are marshall A surprisingly sturdy little film . When McG gets to the big-game finale , he fumbles big-time , going for a deflating victory at the expense of emotional truth . As the world 's biggest sucker for uplifting jock movies , I can heartily endorse the skillfully manipulative We Are Marshall . 'Restrained ' and 'tasteful ' are not words normally associated with McG , the director best known for countless music videos and the Charlie 's Angels movie franchise . We Are Marshall could change that . More than a simple football movie , the theme is not about winning or losing , but finding the strength to move on in spite of tragedy . [ O ] f course real people 's real pain can be turned , yet again , into trite , glossy cinematic junk food . How could we possibly doubt this ? ... sincere performances help to put over some of the inspirational cliches ... We Are Marshall ( it 's the rally cry of the team ) does n't always have a handle on the grief , but it does keep emotions close to the surface . That allows McConaughey to be the most refreshing , funny and believable he ever has been . Every lump it puts in your throat is fully earned . A touching story turns into an ordinary movie-of-the-week . 	Matthew McConaughey almost runs We Are Marshall to the end zone , but ca n't stop it from taking the easy , feel-good route in memorializing this historic event in American sports .
facing the giants If it can not avoid the clichs of both the sports film and the inspirational film , at least Facing the Giants leavens its message with good humor . Most of the actors read their lines earnestly but flatly , and Kendrick has done them no favors by pushing them to play broad comedy in some scenes and anguished drama in others . I 'm not about to argue with the message , but the delivery system sinks below the level of after-school special , and the acting matches . Faith-based pigskin tale . Kendrick needs to learn that didacticism is n't a film aesthetic . The religious proselytizing in this football movie is about as subtle as a blindside hit by a 300-pound defensive end . Facing the Giants falls victim to the tell-don't-show brand of filmmaking , in which every character always says exactly what he 's feeling and every time a character 's flaws are pointed out to him , they are immediately corrected . When a film is as unintentionally corny as this one , it 's anyone 's guess as to how many viewers can stomach all the schmaltz for the positive message at the end . By preaching to the converted so heavy-handedly , the filmmakers fumble an opportunity to reach beyond their target demo of devout churchgoers . Fitfully entertaining To reach a broader audience , though , the filmmakers will have to scrap their playbook and learn a whole new set of rules . 	The tropes of both football and evangelical movies are gracelessly on parade in this banal , insipid drama .
drive 2011 These are not merely pulsing , pulpy action sequences ; they are also illustrative extensions of a vibrant character study . Action and smarts do n't necessarily go hand-in-hand . But director Nicolas Winding Refn ( 'Bronson ' ) deftly blends them in 'Drive , ' a phenomenally entertaining movie that employs a haunting soundtrack , clever direction and entertaining characters . `` Drive '' is not the `` Fast and Furious '' knockoff you might think it is based on the advertising . It is far more artistic and thoughtful than any of those films could ever hope to be . Consider it a thinking man 's action movie . so possessed by the motion in its pictures -- even its frozen tableaus are alive with the threat of movement -- it immediately joins the pantheon of Cinema 's Coolest Movies A delectable mix of brooding arthouse and heist-gone-to-hell genre picture . An artful , impressively made film , and one sure to excite cinephiles , everyday adrenaline junkies , and fans of stylized car chases set to an indie synthpop soundtrack . Why would Gosling , a fascinatingly cerebral actor , take a role so far inside his comfort zone ? Does he long to strike action-icon poses -- to be the new Nic Cage ? Refn accomplishes the near impossible in modern movies : combining uncompromising art-house style with the real potential for mass-market accessibility , in a pitch-perfect blend of pulp narrative and pure cinema . A movie with the title Drive should not be left in 'park . ' The first fifteen minutes of Drive may be the best movie I 've seen this year . 	With its hyper-stylized blend of violence , music , and striking imagery , Drive represents a fully realized vision of arthouse action .
zodiac [ Fincher 's ] most impressive monolith to date , a sprawling , three-decade-spanning infodump that , for all its virtuosity , occasionally feels like being locked in the file cabinet of a conspiracy junkie . Zodiac 's exhaustive attention to minute facts and theories forms a parallel not only with Graysmith and Toschi 's fanatical need to nab the killer but also the director 's own perfectionist filmmaking methods . There are no tidy , last-minute plot twists to make you feel good in Fincher 's Zodiac , just focus -- to keep an audience focused -- and the most disciplined filmmaking you 've seen in forever . Zodiac runs long , about 21/2 hours , but it also runs fast , at a heart-pounding pace over four major characters and 22 years . There 's not an ounce of fat on any sequence or performance . Worth seeing more for its thoughtful attention to detail than its satisfying completeness . Conveying an astonishing array of information across a long narrative arc while still maintaining dramatic rhythm and tension , this adaptation of Robert Graysmith 's bestseller reps by far director David Fincher 's most mature and accomplished work . The movie feels like a giant canvas that has been painstakingly crafted . It 's murky in atmosphere -- shooting entirely on digital video nicely realizes Fincher 's predilection for dark and gloomy -- yet rich with detail . An enthrallingly unsatisfactory film , worth watching and deciphering Zodiac works as a depiction of a criminal investigation , but even more than that it works as an examination of how a tough-to-catch criminal eats away at those who seek to apprehend him . Encouraging the audience to draw their own conclusions , this moody masterpiece is up there with David Fincher 's best . 	A quiet , dialogue-driven thriller that delivers with scene after scene of gut-wrenching anxiety . David Fincher also spends more time illustrating nuances of his characters and recreating the mood of the 70s than he does on gory details of murder .
monty pythons life of brian The Pythons take satirical aim at the dangers of blind religious fervor -- which makes Brian ... the perfect complement to [ Mel ] Gibson 's blood-soaked film . one of those films you either rejoice in or reject A king-size cult comedy hit . Overrated Python flick . It 's just not that funny . Wonderfully profane . There is little doubt that The Life of Brian represents some of the most daring and cutting edge comedy of the 1970s . It 's a hearty burlesque . If you love comedy and have n't yet experienced a Monty Python movie , you 're missing out . Only a select few of [ Monty Python 's ] truest fans will appreciate the message they convey in a movie that actively mocks the concept of organized religion while making us laugh along with them . spoofs human nature more than anything , notably the gullibility of people who behave as sheep and follow others blindly 	One of the more cutting=edge films of the 1970s , this religious farce from the classic comedy troupe is as poignant as it is funny and satirical .
the punk singer 2013 Over two decades of Hanna 's life in just 80 minutes has us wanting more , not to mention the opportunity to share her story as a way to show that feminism is not an ugly word , nor are the hearts of the proud women behind it . Extensive interviews with Hanna then and now are included , along with band mates , friends , mentors and several different critics and journalists . It 's impossible to watch The Punk Singer and not ask if feminism is dead . That 's a fair starting question . But a better one is what if we 've just stopped recognizing it ? The movie succeeds as a punk chronicle by focusing on a true believer who was lionized by many but who turned out to be only human . [ An ] affectionate , bordering on hagiographic , film . This exciting assemblage of archival and interview materials recalls the considerable influence ( and sometime public trivialization ) of the 1990s riot grrrl movement while showcasing the role of its co-founder and most charismatic leader . Anderson 's movie , like Hanna 's music , is raw and propulsive , anti-indifferent . With energy and insight , this documentary races through the life of one of the most influential musicians of the 1990s , feminist punk artist Kathleen Hanna . At its best , The Punk Singer tells the story of one pivotal life in a whole movement . It is not the most subtly layered documentary I 've ever seen , but these days it 's no longer verboten to take a stance in docs . And there is so much to be admired about Hanna . 	It verges on hagiography , but given the deeply compelling nature of its subject 's story , The Punk Singer can be forgiven its lack of objectivity .
eight below It 's a sturdy , old-fashioned adventure yarn . The eight canine stars of Eight Below pull their weight literally and figuratively in this lively dog-in-jep adventure from Disney . ... a shaggy-dog version of a Jack London story , enhanced with an animatronic leopard seal that looks like Charlie the Tuna . Following the success of last year 's March of the Penguins , and now Eight Below -- an equally triumphal processional of dogs across the bottom of the world -- Cinema Antarctica is suddenly sizzling hot ! If you 've ever read an inspiring article in Reader 's Digest that involved animals , I dare say there is no reason to watch this movie . Abandoned by their masters when a storm hits Antarctica , eight amazing huskies find themselves instantly anthropomorphized . Eight Below takes a lot of liberties and blows even more opportunities , but it remains a steady , fulfilling adventure . ... a thrilling , sometimes excruciating adventure and a real testament to the spirit and intelligence of the working animals at its core . After two hours in Walker 's slack-jawed company , you feel like you 've just gone through the Antarctic winter yourself . [ Frank Marshall ] is n't exactly a cinematic poet , but he does a fine job delineating each individual dog 's personality , as well as the shifting hierarchy of power within the pack . 	Featuring a stellar cast of marooned mutts , who deftly display emotion , tenderness , loyalty and resolve , Eight Below is a heartwarming and exhilarating adventure film .
the-fighter [ A ] rickety , unfocused contraption of a film that sputters and chugs along without offering any hint of why its director thought it was worth making . The Fighter is OK as a gritty indie with great performances from Mark Wahlberg and Christian Bale . But the all too familiar Rocky-formula keeps it from being a total KO . Ensemble acting at its finest . Stars Mark Wahlberg , Christian Bale , Amy Adams and Melissa Leo deliver knock-out performances here , as does everyone else in this outstanding film . Biopic about former welterweight champ Micky Ward has neither the subtle heart of `` Rocky '' nor the brutality of `` Raging Bull '' , but it does possess an achingly real performance from Amy Adams that 's a complete knockout . Mark Wahlberg 's portrayal of former boxer Mickey Ward packs a riveting and powerful punch but it 's the performances by the rest of the cast , including scene stealer Christian Bale that makes the film a winner . This film was supposed to be a crowd-pleaser , but in the end , there 's just not a whole lot to be pleased about All four principals are well-cast and up to the challenge , but the knuckle-sandwich dialogue kayos the actors at every turn . Everything about The Fighter sounds like a clich , but it comes off like a perfectly made movie that hits you emotionally and makes you appreciate the amazing talent bringing the film to life . The Fighter , its heart full to bursting , is an emotional powerhouse that comes close to spilling over . A vastly entertaining boxing tale featuring championship bouts from Christian Bale and Melissa Leo . 	Led by a trio of captivating performances from Mark Wahlberg , Christian Bale , and Amy Adams , The Fighter is a solidly entertaining , albeit predictable , entry in the boxing drama genre .
the motorcycle diaries El viaje fsico imprescindible que dar origen a la jornada espiritual y al rompimiento de las cadenas del hombre , para convertirlo en el hroe que estaba destinado a ser . I think it is beautifully shot , and the chemistry between these two young actors is terrific . What 's wonderful about Salles ' film is that he captures the rhythm of the odyssey , the sense of adventure waiting around every corner , and he lets us all come along for the ride . You get so caught up in the beauty of the images , and lost in the weathered faces found along the way , you quite forget that you 're traveling with Che Guevara -- which is , of course , exactly what the original experience would be . Unfortunately , the film was directed by Brazilian filmmaker Walter Salles . This is the equivalent of getting Mike Nichols or Ron Howard to direct a biopic of Sid Vicious . Portrait of the revolutionary as a young man Wait until Francis Ford Coppola gets a load of this gem . It is every bit the movie that his long gestating On the Road should become . One thing few will disagree on is the quality of the film 's acting , especially by Gael Garca Bernal as Guevara and Rodrigo de la Serna as his friend . Once you realize the film 's structure , it becomes ... well , a bit on the dull side . The movie feels a lot longer than its 128 minutes . THE MOTORCYCLE DIARIES is less a revolutionary tract and more a relic of the life of a will-be revolutionary . 	The Motorcycle Diaries is heartfelt and profound in its rendering of the formative experiences that turn Ernesto `` Che '' Guerva into a famous revolutionary .
stoked the rise and fall of gator Although it leaves something to be desired as a true-crime expose , Stoked raises compelling questions on the nature of celebrity . A near-perfect time capsule of a specific moment in our culture , and a telling analysis of instant celebrity and the fickleness of youth culture . Gator 's gradual transition from smirking punk to neon-clad cheeseball is vividly told by his former friends and contemporaries . Archival footage and interviews with contemporaries round out the rest of the film , illustrating Gator 's life without really illuminating it . The rise and fall of a pop-culture hero seems hardly noteworthy these days , yet Helen Stickler 's documentary Stoked : The Rise and Fall of Gator resonates , with a tale so dark it 's difficult to shake . A skillfully organized account of Mr. Rogowski 's life and of the sport 's boom period . Stoked gives a young woman 's rape and murder almost no narrative weight -- it is merely the disappointing spoiler to a talented skateboarder 's career . Serves up a gripping look at skate history through an investigation of one of its darker moments . Unforgettable . The movie , peppered with interviews with skaters Tony Hawk , Stacy Peralta and Rogowski himself , captures both the '80s and the sadness of lost innocence . 	The harder they come , the harder they fall -- this film shows , in raw , gripping detail , that even skater dudes ca n't resist the life of the rich and famous . It 's more poignant than hard-core , and gives us a portrait of a life run over by the whims of the entertainment industry .
stuart little 2 This 72-minute film does have some exciting scenes , but it 's a tad slow . ... a silly but amusing package of innocence , fantasy , adventure and color ... An overcalculated , up-to-the-minute kid flick that buries the book 's mysteries under a pile of noise , misguided action sequences , and product placements for the PlayStation 2 . The color sense of Stuart Little 2 is its most immediate and most obvious pleasure , but it would count for very little if the movie were n't as beautifully shaped and as delicately calibrated in tone as it is . Much of the movie 's charm lies in the utter cuteness of Stuart and Margolo . Their computer-animated faces are very expressive . Click to read review ... wholesome , warm and energetic -- if predictable ... The animation is outstanding and because of the cleverness of the story it will appeal to adults as well as young audiences . Young children will adore this sweet white mouse , although older kids and impish adults may miss the edginess of `` Lilo & Stitch . '' The world of Stuart Little is a wonderful thing to snuggle into , as full of heart and pep and innocence as the title character himself . 	Stuart Little 2 is a sweet , visually impressive sequel that provides wholesome entertainment for kids .
two lovers Bravely wearing his heart on his sleeve , James Gray directs the tender and terrific Two Lovers as an antidote to the virus of hip . A throwback to the days when love in the movies involved the mind as well as the heart . A custom fit character for edgy Joaquin , a laundry drone who gets taken to the cleaners in this love the one you 're with sordid triangle , where a grownup romantic adventure is the same as running away from home . Two Lovers , where Mom makes three . Keeps a grip on you . An alluring romantic drama that challenges us to see the tricky machinations of desire and its blend of sweetness and bitterness . [ Pheonix ] never simply plays the role , he Acts it out ... and the mechanics of his Acting are always very present for all the world to see . Phoenix plays that schism -- the damaged soul in a hunky body -- to perfection , so well that we overlook the logical chasm at the centre of the tale . You have to watch it with different brain muscles than you 're used to using , because the film has no frills or hooks , no visible 'arcs , ' nothing to grab on to but the fragile humanity of the people on screen . Director James Gray is best known for hard-edged dramas like Little Odessa , so it 's surprising to find he has such a well-developed romantic side . After his miserable cop drama `` We Own the Night , '' co-writer/director James Gray grinds gears switching from his typical predilection for crime genre stories to make an imitation love story . 	Two Lovers is a complex , intriguing , richly-acted romantic drama
the rules of the game The word `` Mozartean '' ... gets thrown around a little too eagerly by critics , but one movie , as almost everyone agrees , deserves this supreme benediction -- Jean Renoir 's The Rules of the Game . The digitally restored print showing in theaters is worth seeing . If it does n't come to your town , then look for it to show up on IFC in its tribute to Janus Films or buy or rent the Criterion Collection DVD . However you see this masterpiece , you absol What ultimately defines the film , what makes it unforgettable , is its tragic gravity . ... has an attitude of empathetic enlightenment that remains a rarity . Perhaps the greatest film ever made . One of cinema 's most monumental achievements . The film may not suit all tastes , but its insight and humanity is undeniable . On the surface , a lace of flirtations , insinuations and rejections compose the basic plotting . But Renoir uses flashes of accelerating drama to amplify his bigger points . Jean Renoir 's classic 1939 satire has n't lost any of its ability to both shock and enlighten . A gorgeous , gracefully astute critique of pre-WWII French aristocracy . 	Its genius escaped many viewers at the time , but in retrospect , The Rules of the Game stands as one of Jean Renoir 's -- and cinema 's -- finest works .
american The American is not a film which explains everything . That 's half the beauty of it . Clooney further solidifies himself as the modern cinematic model of the disillusioned American male At its best , the film 's silence and unrevealing mood of observation remind you of 'The Passenger ' or Paulo Sorrentino 's 'Consequences of Love ' ... While cinema-lovers can cheer a director willing to buck the fashion for sensory overload , The American ca n't rightly be called a success . Much like the town that hides Jack , `` The American '' is a beautiful relic , an honorable homage to films of the past . It does succeed in sustaining a mix of moods ( action and idyllic ) that is a little different . The story is startlingly clichd yet told in a pretentious and ponderous art-house style that suggests the filmmakers thought they were making something meaningful . Jack works out . Jack puts together a rifle as if he were making a YouTube instructional video . Though Clooney broods beautifully , we 'd like a story , too . But this Amer-I-can ca n't . Taut , mature drama examines the life of a lone assassin . Movie allusions ultimately do Corbijn in ... he breaks the unwritten rule never to show a scene from a movie that 's better than yours . 	As beautifully shot as it is emotionally restrained , The American is an unusually divisive spy thriller -- and one that rests on an unusually subdued performance from George Clooney .
addams family values A thinner , airier reunion . The second Addams flick is actually funny , too . And obviously that goes a long way . O tom de constante humor negro funciona ainda melhor do que no filme original . ... if you liked the old Addams Family on television , you 're sure to love them at least as much on film . Mr. Sonnenfeld repeats some of the first film 's favorite visual stunts without wearing out their welcome , and he sustains much more exuberance than a sequel might be expected to have . Though this sequel probably has more creative energy than its predecessor , the constant stream of one-liners and sight gags is very much hit or miss . Somehow , the new production fails to sustain the creepy , kooky , mysterious , spooky and altogether ooky visual sweep that held the first film together . Like the first of the Addams chronicles , this is an essentially lazy movie , too often settling for easy gags and special effects that do n't come to any really funny point . Even better than the first ! You 've got to respect a comedy that makes light of arson , torture , and murder in these squeamish times . 	New , well-developed characters add dimension to this batty satire , creating a comedy much more substantial than the original .
margot at the wedding Noah Baumbach stumbles in his first film since the intriguing The Squid and the Whale . The performances are outlandish and the story is all over the place . The opening scenes of Margot at the Wedding are so sharp and funny and good that it 's upsetting to report that the film can not maintain its momentum , but flails and flounders , before finally giving way to a deluge of histrionics . A huge disappointment after Baumbach 's sublime `` 'Squid and the Whale . '' Ugly , murky , and mean . It 's a shame to see such dedicated performers flay their psyches in the service of such fundamentally shallow material . tries to much to be shockingly strange but quite entertaining though Shooting with a handheld camera that stays just slightly aloof from the uneasy atmosphere , [ Noah ] Baumbach creates a vivid and nuanced sense of this family 's dynamics . the one thing missing is a plot - and this time Baumbach 's characters and their go-nowhere problems are just not engaging enough to carry us through an hour and a half of grating domestic narcissism . Because the nastiness is all surface , it makes the characters seem unlikable . Unfortunately , Baumbach 's follow-up to The Squid and the Whale , the pretentious and talky Margot at the Wedding , is more likely to contract than expand his appeal . An unhappy , mind-numbing , dysfunctional family diatribe 	Despite a great cast , the characters in Margot at the Wedding are too unlikable to enthrall viewers .
sweet hereafter Egoyan has also made his most emotionally acessible film to date without losing that rigorous intellectualism that makes his work such a rewarding challenge for persistent viewers . Flawlessly made . A beautiful elegy about family and community , death and healing ... The Sweet Hereafter could serve as a textbook example of the difference between television movies and `` real '' movies . Ian Holm gives us a wrenching portrait of a self-contained man cracking at the seams . Though this is Egoyan 's first adaptation , The Sweet Hereafter could serve as a model for how to do it right . Elegiac and yet straightforward as haiku Despite the unhappiness of so many in the community even before the accident , The Sweet Hereafter shows graphically and yet in an understated , lyric tone , the ways in which the disaster has permanently changed the face of the backwater burg . Canadian writer-director Atom Egoyan 's most ambitious work to date , The Sweet Hereafter is a rich , complex meditation on the impact of a terrible tragedy on a small town . The film searches for that place in the heart where we feel sadness and squeezes it persuasively . 	Director Atom Egoyan examines tragedy and its aftermath with intelligence and empathy .
the kings speech It 's the odds-on favourite to win Best Picture at the next Academy Awards in February , and deservedly so . There is no suspense in this , but there is much to enjoy in the performances . Rush is one of our best character actors , and Firth is perfect for this . The rumours are completely true . The superlatives are completely justified . Colin Firth really does give the performance of his life as the Queen 's father , George VI . It is a wonderful entertainment , a fascinating history lesson and a showcase for several delightful performances . A year after his acclaimed performance in Tom Ford 's A Single Man , Colin Firth delivers the finest of his career - as a stammering George VI . Despite the obvious movie structure that gets forced onto historical events , The King 's Speech is a terrific film with great performances and an inspiring story . So refreshingly entertaining and touching that you want everyone you know to see it twice . It does n't matter if watching a movie about the British royal family sounds like fun or homework -- The King 's Speech is hard to resist . A conventional over-hyped picture lifted by unconventional fairly-hyped performances . Truly the m - m - most British movie ever made . It 's an uplifting audience pleaser that also showcases film-making arts and crafts at an exalted level . 	Colin Firth gives a masterful performance in The King 's Speech , a predictable but stylishly produced and rousing period drama .
big trouble in little china Kung fu , monsters , sorcery , 18-wheelers , swordfights and world-saving heroics against impossible odds : What more could you want ? A inspired and slightly unhinged homage to grindhouse B-moviemaking . A 'B'-movie-style Western meets Eastern , a supernatural 'chopsocky ' fantasy with leading man Kurt Russell doing a feature-length impression of a dead movie star . Put that in your pipe and smoke it . [ Blu-ray ] On the commentary track , Russell and Carpenter provide one of the best bantering sessions I 've ever heard I really hated this . ... all action from the word go , with almost none of it generating any excitement , suspense , or humor . Works as a stand alone classic that features John Carpenter at his best . Russell and Carpenter make a great team . Benefits from a rollicking wise-ass performance from Kurt Russell but otherwise falls limp courtesy of too many corny gags . I saw Kurt Russell in lipstick armed with a bowie knife and thought , `` Super-duper . '' 	Brimming with energy and packed with humor , Big Trouble in Little China distills kung fu B-movies as affectionately as it subverts them .
marwencol Enthralling and deeply strange . The film Marwencol is as mesmerizing as Mark 's imaginary town and treats him and his world with absolute respect If you have even a passing interest in outsider art , you owe it to yourself to see `` Marwencol . '' Hogancamp 's alliance with director Jeff Malmberg in this artful and poignant film marks a victory in the war against the self . Utterly compelling portrait of a singular artist and survivor . Marwencol is about Hogancamp and his miniature alter-ego , about his photographs and his creative process . But it is also , on a deeper level , about how we process our experiences ... First-time director Jeff Malmberg tells Hogancamp 's fascinating story with sensitivity , never resorting to exploitation . Outsider art has never seemed as riveting -- or as revealing -- as it does in Marwencol . Marwencol '' poses penetrating questions -- about art , outsider status , the mysteries of the human brain and the possibility of second chances -- all while circling , ever closer , an unforgettable individual and the unknowable creative impulse . The beauty of `` Marwencol '' is that , by the time it 's over , wanting to live in a doll village does n't sound so weird because we understand exactly where Hogancamp is coming from . 	Inspiring and fascinating , Marwencol depicts its subject with heartfelt tenderness , raising poignant questions about art and personal tragedy along the way .
caramel A gentle and pleasant soap opera done in a fairly high cinematic style . The characters are far too attractive and the plot too simplistic , but the film grows on the viewer as the minutes glide by . A 34-year-old music-video director , Labaki shows promise with a smooth , artistic eye , although she succumbs to the Mel Gibson-like tendency to give herself the most closeups . Labaki is so enchanting you 'll find yourself looking forward to her next appearance . [ A ] s smart and heartfelt as it is observant about the universalities of the lives of women ... A brisk dramatic comedy that combines melodrama , humor and social critique in equal measure . Director and principal performer Nadine Labaki juggles a series of romances but the love that shines through the most is her passion for her city of Beirut . A film of abundant heart and exquisite faces . Gently exposes another side of a culture and country known more for headline-making wars than sensitive filmmaking . As tart , and tantalizing , as that little pot of caramel already bubbling on the stove , just waiting to bring delight -- or quick stabbing pain . While formulaic in structure , the film is actually quite lovely . 	Caramel is both an astute cultural study , and a charming comedic drama from a talented newcomer .
seraphim falls For all its many virtues , not the least of which are its ambition and its obvious intelligence , Seraphim Falls is an honorable disappointment . No rotund subplots , no twist endings , and no tail-chasing . It 's just two great actors dashing around the countryside trying to slice each others ' throats . It is not a terrible movie -- its beginning holds a certain promise -- just , finally , an unengaging one . If we could delete one sequence from Seraphim Falls , it would be an exceptional modern Western . The kind of big , beautiful widescreen action-adventure we just do n't get to see much anymore . Great performances , splendid looks , but its grip slackens toward a rather fuzzy finale . It wo n't mark the return of the wild west , but it will make fans of the days when quick-drawing was a marketable skill and horses were a man 's best friend very , very happy . The plot here may be simple , but it is strong . So are the performances . ... it moves along with minimalist efficiency before running out of gas during an overlong allegorical final section . As Gideon misses chance after chance to break free from the posse on his tail , you just want Seraphim Falls to end . 	A brutal , slow-moving drama that unfolds among some great-looking scenery .
i dont know how she does it We know how she does it . The better question is : Why should we care ? Too real to be escapist and too sitcom-ish to be realistic ... not dramatic enough to be a drama , not comedic enough to be comedy ... . What should have been a challenging , inspirational , laugh-out-loud romantic comedy about a mother trying to make the best of the see-saw challenge between work and home is n't very good at all . Too much time and energy is directed toward that go-nowhere story , wasting the film 's best asset , which is the low-key , lived-in rapport between Parker and Kinnear . There are plenty of skilled people behind this female-empowerment movie , but the film badly botches its core message . About as funny as lice . A meager one-joke comedy peopled by stereotypes . The film , blah from start to finish , is more likely to sour fond memories than shake off old associations . The structure does n't work and the various directorial flourishes ca n't disguise the fact that nothing really happens , plot-wise . Pleasant but consistently rather bland , a light , low-key Lifetime movie with an A-list star and wide theatrical distribution . 	A limp comedy with a hopelessly outdated viewpoint on gender , featuring Sarah Jessica Parker in rote Carrie-mode .
mean streets The acting and editing have such an original , tumultuous force that the picture is completely gripping . Scorsese 's first masterpiece is still gripping . I contend that Mean Streets ( 1973 ) is [ Scorsese 's ] greatest work and his most underappreciated . `` Mean Streets '' is more than a rambunctious time capsule of Italian American experience , it is groundbreaking film that announces the career of a truly original voice in world cinema . ... a gritty , one-of-a-kind , unromantic , down-and-dirty look at the streets of New York like no film had portrayed those streets and their people before . Does n't do it for me , I 'm afraid . One of cinema 's finest moments ... .you 'll never forget it This film showed the world that a major talent had arrived on the scene . This marriage of indelible imagery with electric , seemingly incongruous pop songs would n't be bettered until , well , the next time Scorsese decided to do it . A ferociously original film . 	Mean Streets is a powerful tale of urban sin and guilt that marks Scorsese 's arrival as an important cinematic voice and features electrifying performances from Harvey Keitel and Robert De Niro .
10009738-revanche Gotz Spielmann smoothly transports us from the seedy Vienna red light district to a tranquil farmhouse setting in this tense , and even a little naughty , revenge tale . `` It works because Spielmann has established that we 're not watching belabored dramatic trajectories collide , but an encounter between two people in miles-away mindsets . '' Impressive noir film that befits Greek tragedy as it travels deep into sublime territory . There is nothing predictable or pat , something many America films are guilty of , and this is the charm . Revanche , a recent Austrian entry in the foreign film Oscar race , is both shocking in its starkness and subtle in its low seethe of dangerous intent . It has a distinctive sort of Euro-hardcore sheen , mainly due to the superbly lucid , diamond-hard cinematography from Martin Gschlacht . This cool , tense Austrian thriller follows a Ukrainian hooker and her petty criminal boyfriend as they try to escape their dead-end lives . Johannes Krisch leads an effective cast . But it 's writer-director Gtz Spielmann who 's truly the talent to watch . An unbearably taut , slow-simmering noir transposed to the vast countryside and its patient , drawn-out rhythms . The title means 'revenge ' , but that 's a deliberate simplification ; Mr. Spielmann 's film is full of surprises and , in its distinctive way , full of life . 	With Revanche , Gtz Spielmann has crafted a debut as surprising as it is suspenseful .
kis uykusu It 's an epic tragedy about life in the Ivory Tower and the inability to understand-much less empathize with-other human beings . The easy gag about the 196-minute `` Winter Sleep '' is that it 's so good it makes 3 1/2 hours feel like two , but that 's no joke . Think of it as dramatic slow-cooking where the ingredients take their time to come together . My favorite movie of 2014 is three hours long , and it 's about Turkish people who live in caves . Winter Sleep 's rumination on ethics and human behavior are a hard ask to expect viewers to wade through . I , however , found it compelling and its themes important . As a former photographer , Ceylan also offers textured , snow-capped imagery to accompany his precise , perceptive probing of interior truths and external lies . Nuri Bilge Ceylan is at the peak of his powers with Winter Sleep , a richly engrossing and ravishingly beautiful magnum opus that surely qualifies as the least boring 196-minute movie ever made . `` The length allows Ceylan to really sink into the characters and their complicated motives ; at times , watching `` Winter Sleep '' is like reading a novel . '' [ Haluk ] Bilginer 's [ performance ] alternates between brooding melancholy and sharp-tongued contemptuousness , failing to reach the tragic dimensions which the writers intended . Beautiful to look at , with its burnished interiors and magnificent Turkish steppes , this long film builds to a powerful conclusion . 	Epic in length , thrilling to behold , and utterly absorbing , Winter Sleep demands -- and rewards -- viewers ' patient attention .
gone baby gone Gone Baby Gone is a masterful work , going beyond the boundaries of simple detective thriller and into the realm of intelligent , morally complex drama . The movie has some nice plot turns , it settles around a painful moral dilemma , and features some fine acting . But it 's the sticky sweat of the street and the fine attention to detail that pulls you in and keeps you glued to the screen . Although it 's far from the masterpiece of crime drama that most critics would lead you to believe , the movie is quite good -- a keenly observant film of life 's ambiguities and nuances . Affleck 's non-acting effort is dark , scuzzy , and authentic . As an actor , Affleck has more turkeys on his r ( C ) sum ( C ) than a Thanksgiving buffet , so what makes him think he can direct ? Yet Gone Baby Gone is strong enough to suggest that moviegoers -- and critics -- should give him the benefit of the doubt . As a director , Ben Affleck reveals a competent craftsmanship but not much flair or inspiration . Despite generic limitations of the adapted novel and lack of smooth storytelling , film has merits , signaling honorable debut of older brother Ben Affleck , and yet another strong turn , alongside Jesse James , from the younger Casey who should become a star . The third act is a labyrinth of past transgressions coming to light and shady character motivations , but co-writer/director Ben Affleck ... allows the moral ambiguity of [ the film 's ] characters and scenario to have an impact . A gritty expose of the shady shards of right and wrong . ... too much plot for its own good , but the underlying moral issues are handled delicately enough to keep things afloat . 	Ben Affleck proves his directing credentials in this gripping dramatic thriller , drawing strong performances from the excellent cast and bringing working-class Boston to the screen .
spy next door Chan is actually a fairly likeable hero and his elocution , never great , is at least passable in this latest romp . The Spy Next Door is inane , but Jackie Chan manages to make it bearable . A movie that posits Billy Ray Cyrus as a techno-genius and allows the baddies to get away with Russian accents that would put most meerkats to shame . The Spy Next Door is so hokey that I could n't help but wonder if I was watching a campy sendup . It opens with `` Secret Agent Man , '' for god 's sake ! Jackie Chan , the most graceful and acrobatic of men when it comes to action scenes , is also one of the most clumsy when it comes to dialogue . When people moan about the world 's worst film-makers , the names Uwe Boll and Joel Schumacher invariably come up . If Brian Levant has escaped such infamy , it 's only by sticking under the radar with kiddie-litter . The fight sequences ( with obvious doubles ) are anemic , and Chan 's traditional outtakes over the closing credits wear pitifully thin . This sad little movie is built entirely to set up Chan 's stunt sequences as he fights with pots , pans , ladders and other found objects or hurtles stairways to chase bad guys . The action stuff is more tolerable than the jokes , but barely . There was no good reason for [ Chan ] to sign on for empty product like this . The Spy Next Door is immediately forgettable family entertainment , suitable for release only in the dung-heap month of January . 	Lacking a script funny enough to cover up for Jackie Chan 's fading physical gifts , The Spy Next Door fails on every conceivable level .
1111103-texas rangers Plays as if the script pages had been tossed in the air and randomly assembled . Although it 's not the worst western ever made ( The Terror of Tiny Town will forever hold that title ) , it is one of the most mediocre , falling prey to more cliches than you can shake a six-gun at . Brings nothing new or interesting to the genre . Call it Dude , Where 's My Horse ? Mediocre movies know no genres . No surprises . Hackneyed retread of ancient Western shtick . Like watching the cast of Beverly Hills 90210 remake The Wild Bunch . The end result may not be a full-blown disaster , but it comes close . A bit of a mess , but it 's not unenjoyable and it boasts a kind of absurd sincerity that 's actually rather appealing . 	As far as westerns go , Texas Rangers is strictly mediocre stuff .
thelma and louise Whereas the material begs for the off-stride touch of a Jonathan Demme , it is sabotaged by Scott , who seems to have little affinity for whimsy . Thelma & Louise becomes more compelling as it rolls along . Thelma & Louise is n't only a movie , it 's also a journey . In some dark night of your distant past , you might once have dreamed about taking it . In creating the characters Thelma and Louise for this hugely entertaining and controversial road movie , Oscar-winning scriptwriter Callie Khouri put women in the driving seat for the first time . It all adds up to a highly enjoyable ride . An enduring classic radically redefining women in movies - or at least some of them . And should finally put to rest the intended ending as not self-obliteration , but a burst of magical realism in flight 'out of this world and into the mass unconscious . ' This is a film not to be missed . Okay , so it 's a bit of a hamfisted approach to putting feminism in an action setting . Still , not bad . An American classic that gets a worthy DVD treatment . Thelma & Louise has its own ending . It may be as questionable as the rest of the picture , but at least you know it was n't spliced on by some guy in marketing . 	Simultaneously funny , heartbreaking , and peppered with action , Ridley Scott 's Thelma & Louise is a potent , well-acted road movie that transcends the feminist message at its core .
10008954-untraceable Untraceable feels sleazy and gratuitous . The problem with Hollywood films condemning the public appetite for torture is that they frequently pander to it , and this is a very lurid and unsavoury example . This well-made thriller 's ending almost makes up for what goes before . This taut , savvy cyber-thriller makes for one of the better net flicks . a well-worn piece of formula produced with just enough professionalism to make it clear that those who made it should have known better This joyless thriller runs the gamut from unconscionable through unwatchable to unendurable . It 's also unfathomable that two talented people , Diane Lane and her director , Gregory Hoblit , got themselves involved in such an unpromising enterprise . This serial killer mystery has a good cast and a reasonable story and it could have been solid , but the plot thickens via acts of such abject stupidity that the movie is eventually ruined . Untraceable has n't the brains of a class-act psychothriller like Silence of the Lambs , and lacks the balls to juice up the trashy verve of the Saw series . Stuck in the middle , it leaves everyone stranded , actors and audience alike . An abhorrent cyberthriller starring a compelling Diane Lane , the film exploits the inhumanity of torture as it cynically condemns Internet rubberneckers ( and by extension , moviegoers ) for watching it online . Sets the tone with an opening suite of scenes that put a kitty in danger . 	Despite Diane Lane 's earnest effort , Untraceable manages to be nothing more than a run-of-the-mill thriller with a hypocritical message .
frozen river One of those worthy movies that is a lot easier to admire than like . A solid , satisfying movie . Occasionally marred by contrivance and a crude internal logic that does n't bear close scrutiny , 'Frozen River ' works best as a knuckle-gnawing , blue-collar genre thriller . A modest but thrilling drama . We quickly sense that the director of this film has unusual perception , and that whatever the story and performances turn out to be , she will make the most of them . This feels like a story destined to end in tragedy but although there are plenty of opportunities to transform this into a heartbreaker , writer/director Courtney Hunt allows the audience a ray of hope . The gritty Leo is gaunt and harried , but tough company to travel with . Too often burdened by its own symbolism , Frozen River is buoyed by Melissa Leo 's nuanced performance . The chill of Frozen River is so unpleasantly relentless that it 's likely to leave viewers dispirited , numb , and wondering what to make of it all . Unafraid to show herself weathered by the cold , harsh elements and never working to make auds love her , [ Star Meliss ] Leo builds the kind of perf that invites concentration , and then high respect . 	Veteran character actress Melissa Leo delivers a stunning performance in this powerful -- if grim -- indie film .
beetlejuice One of Tim Burton 's earliest works , and quite possibly his best , when his eager energy was n't completely swamped by his self-indulgence . The character of Beetlejuice is hazy because the writers can never decide if he 's a villain or an anti-hero ... A minor classic . The movie is all anticlimax once we realize it 's going to be about gimmicks , not characters . Some of the most surprisingly enjoyable viewing in years . With its sophisticated yet accessible blend of comedy and the macabre , I knew Beetlejuice was likely to be one of those films I would never tire of . But a classic ? It 's been 20 years . I 'm willing to throw that blue ribbon on it . Leave it to Tim Burton , with his affinity for the misunderstood monster , to be as sweet as he is funny , and not terribly scary , though that 's part of his point ... Beetlejuice means something good : that imaginative artists can bring a fading genre back from the dead . Coasts by like a rocket , thanks to Keaton 's inspired performance and Burton 's dark-carnival lunacy . ... weird and unorthadox and innovative and clever , but the main thing is that it 's funny . 	Brilliantly bizarre and overflowing with ideas , Beetlejuice offers some of Michael Keaton 's most deliciously manic work - and creepy , funny fun for the whole family .
exorcist the version youve never seen The scares were sometimes cheap , but they were n't stupid . A triumph of dramatic construction as well as special effects . If you want to see how it was done the first time , give this a look-see , even if all you get is a good laugh . The Exorcist remains the standard by which all other horror movies are judged . Remains one of the scariest movies ever . Catholic propaganda ? Perhaps . But it 's one hell of a movie . What a pleasure to see that a horror film can be exquisitely and lovingly made in an age of cheap shots and shoddy thrills . It weaves a frightening spell right from the get-go . A horror film that stands the test of time and still gets under the skin . A movie so 'scary ' it borders on being silly . 	The Exorcist has withstood the test of time , and it still has that renegade feel and the power to shock .
tigerland Schumacher borrows the best elements of other wartime movies . Farrell is the best thing about the film , which veers into oversentimentality quite a bit for a film that 's shot with such a gritty aesthetic . A great army movie . Beneath the rough vrit exterior beats the same slick , corny heart that has pumped blood ( and money ) through Mr. Schumacher 's Batman and John Grisham pictures . ... never quite catches fire or becomes the searing expose that director Schumacher intended . Farrell holds the film together as the one element that sets this a notch above the average military drama . One of its writers , Ross Klavan , based the screenplay on his own experience , and it 's his approach that makes the film worth talking about . A talented newcomer with genuine presence , Farrell is able to suggest some complexity in a character that is written without any . starkly effective , if a bit too blunt in its obviousness ... after the effective buildup , the resolution is a letdown . It seems pat , formulaic , and anticlimactic ... 	A great cast and the gritty feel of the film help elevate Tigerland above the familiarity of the subject matter .
burlesque Not enough films hit the sweet spot that Burlesque does between ridiculous , flagrantly decrepit and yet game enough in spangly execution to sweep you along . The movie is frivolous fun , but not , as I had sort of hoped , as sinfully awful as Showgirls , Mariah Carey 's Glitter or Britney Spears ' Crossroads . While campy and clichd , this is a surprisingly enjoyable piece of escapism with Christina Aguilera delivering an impressive turn in the lead role . No 'Nine ' or 'Chicago ' but entertaining enough . Bland Burlesque is n't even awful enough to qualify as a so-bad-it's-good guilty pleasure . Oh well . Two hours of recycled plots and plastic acting . Intentionally or not , it might be the comedy of the year . Christina Aguilera 's film debut in 'Burlesque ' is not an updated version of 'Showgirls . ' In fact , with the big screen return of Cher , along with the dance choreography and singing by the two leads , the film is really an enjoyable guilty pleasure . This is a music video ; an ego piece for two fading stars that is one of the most creatively bankrupt pieces of cinema in years . Actually , most music videos are better . The rest of Burlesque plays like an extended version of the `` Lady Marmalade '' video , with a few contrivances to provide vague conflict . 	Campy and clichd , Burlesque wastes its talented cast ( including a better-than-expected Christina Aguilera ) on a movie that wavers uncertainly between `` bad '' and `` so bad it 's good . ''
waterworld It 's borderline halfway decent . For the first 25 minutes or so , it 's even actually good , in its derivative way . If the story seems a little waterlogged , it 's still big , loud , and fun to watch . Just another special effects-laden , digitally enhanced , B-movie , adventure thriller . Regardless of faults , I embrace Waterworld as the pure matinee escapism it was intended to be , readily devouring the sci-fi excitement both Reynolds and Costner are happy to dish up . Waterworld is the movie that did n't happen . Which is a roundabout way of saying that the infamous Universal film is very good , damn good -- not great , mind you , but rousing and continually entertaining . Waterworld is a marginal film : always extravagant , sometimes entertaining , often preachy and dull -- a pure formula picture . actually pretty good It 's a genuine vault at greatness that misses the mark -- but survives . While it is true that time , and the obsessive culture of the Internet , has lessened Waterworld 's `` Fishtar '' reputation to some extent , this is still one massively flawed film . Waterworld is n't Fishtar , but Kevin Costner 's pricey , post-apocalyptic sloshbuckler is n't a seafaring classic either . 	Though it suffered from toxic buzz at the time of its release , Waterworld is ultimately an ambitious misfire : an extravagant sci-fi flick with some decent moments and a lot of silly ones .
liam Borrows delivers one of those remarkable , pre-adolescent performances that rises from a place so pure it 's impossible to criticize . Is this fussy folderol the only way to teach that it 's wrong to hate ? According to Frears , 't is . The child himself is never strong enough as an individual presence to anchor the story . Overwhelmed by personal agenda , and a religious one at that . A biographical piece featuring an 8-year-old in the title role that goes far in explaining how bad times can lead to the growth of extremist groups . Your heart will ache for the little Liam , who has yet to lose his innocence in the face of unbelievable cruelty . It 's been beautifully made with tact and care . Stumbles a bit with a muddled final act , but it 's not enough to mar this generally fine film . It is an ugly story with the ring of truth , and could hardly be more timely . ... its dramatic efforts are contrived and strain credibility . 	Though Liam 's harrowing story is reminiscent of Angela 's Ashes , it showcases strong performances , including one by child actor Anthony Borrows .
home on the range An overextended cartoon , stretched to its limit despite the relatively short 76-minute running time . Disney 's western cartoon comedy may be the first film to require cortisone treatments from jamming its elbow in the audience 's ribs so often . Keeps milking the same gags and throwing the same bull , and after a while you feel cowed watching it . This is true `` fun for all ages '' Moo-ve on ... nothing funny to see here . This 76-minute Western tall tale is n't out-and-out bad , but strictly formulaic and an underachievement from the studio that made the dazzling Snow White . This film throws so much at you so fast it hopes you wo n't notice that the quality of the material is n't particularly impressive . Roseanne Barr , our narrator , introduces Maggie with 'That 's me . I 'm a cow . ' It sounds silly . And it is . But much of the movie 's charm comes from its embracing the silliness . The film is garish and frenetic but absolutely lifeless . 	Though Home on the Range is likeable and may keep young children diverted , it 's one of Disney 's more middling titles , with garish visuals and a dull plot .
big Hanks gives one of the best performances of his impressive career . Great performance by Hanks makes this a winner . What 's great about it is that it shows how wonderfully full of toys the world of adults can be . And though this may fall under the heading of tiny , perhaps even fatuous , revelations , it does send you out of the theater with a lighter step . This is mainstream Hollywood filmmaking at its best -- packed with intelligence , humour and pathos . Fanciful tearjerker with Hanks in another diverse role Thanks almost exclusively to Tom Hanks , `` Big '' is far and away the best `` age-switch '' flick out there . Wonderful story with some mature material . Who can forget the grungy hotel clerk played by Rockets Redglare ? A funny , bittersweet film that opens as a cautionary tale about growing up too fast , but deepens into a movie about the unplumbable gulf between childhood and adulthood . For any other full-grown actors who try their hands at fidgeting , squirming , throwing water balloons and wolfing down food in a huge variety of comically disgusting ways , this really is the performance to beat . 	Refreshingly sweet and undeniably funny , Big is a showcase for Tom Hanks , who dives into his role and infuses it with charm and surprising poignancy .
the island president What just might be the scariest movie of the year does n't feature skyscraper-crushing robots or species-annihilating bacteria . [ M ] akes climate change dramatic , political , personal , and the right stuff of leadership . . . The film would seem hagiographic if his biography were n't so stirring . An imperative issue film inside of a phenomenally appealing human interest piece that is equal parts individually intimate and internationally substantial . The Island President should be commended for offering a stark reminder that , while the world 's great nations turned their attentions to economics , the waters continued to rise . Absorbing . Alerting . Shenk expertly weaves Nasheed 's extraordinary personal story together with the Maldives ' breathtaking natural beauty and a Capra-esque tale of dogged idealism and political courage to create wonderfully vivid cinematic portraiture . A fascinating look at an extraordinary personality . Ex-Maldives president Mohamed Nasheed comes across in this documentary as a kind of climate-change Prospero . `` The Island President '' is heartening and unsettling by turns . Despite its tendency to blame India and China more than the wealthy Western nations for the Copenhagen climate change fiasco , the documentary is a solid examination of the truly catastrophic implications of uncontrolled greenhouse gases . 	An eye-opening and appealing documentary about an earnest politician up against the closed door drama of climate change .
1193303-1193303-trumbo By itself , the golden age of Trumbo 's career would make for an inspired documentary . But , alas , history situates him in another story , a tragedy that nearly consumed him and many other members of Hollywood . The readings of Dalton Trumbo 's letters to family and friends are starkly rendered-famous faces ... recite rousing missives without the aid of sets or props of any kind save for Trumbo 's own thunderous proclamations in defense of free speech . It 's Trumbo 's words -- unfiltered and often unhinged -- that make this doc worth seeing . First-rate documentary about a screenwriter who stood up to the blacklist and serves as an example of the kind of resistance that is needed today as the government shreds the Constitution . ... the film 's inability to put a new spin on well-covered material ... means the definitive work about this fascinating figure is yet to come . Trumbo emerges as a son 's bittersweet valentine to his old man , and a tribute to the senior Trumbo 's resilience , wit , and outrage in the face of a national disgrace . Like the great artist he is Trumbo 's work speaks as loudly today as it did 50 years ago . Perhaps we should all listen . Using rich archival footage , including Trumbo 's own words and letters , this comprehensive docu sheds light on the Oscar-winning blacklisted writer ( one of the Hollywood Ten ) who continued to be creative in exile . Trumbo 's vivid archival footage and interviews share less-than-equal time , though , with an all-star cast ... taking turns reading from the writer 's letters and speeches . As the story of a fierce , beleaguered individualist , 'Trumbo ' is stirring and informative , though perhaps not as thorough as it could be . 	Trumbo celebrates the life and work of blacklisted screenwriter Dalton Trumbo with measures of humor and sadness .
man push cart Elusive and underpowered . A noble attempt to give us a look at one of the regular people who populate our civilization , one of the guys we may see everyday but would be otherwise totally unfamiliar with . If you 've forgotten -- or never known -- the rhythm and grace that cinema can sing with , then please , for your own sanity , see Man Push Cart , and rediscover how achingly lovely a film can be . Like that daily grind , his story of salvation sought and never attained is one of listless , bloodless tedium . ... a fascinating , sad , sometimes quite poetic window into a grueling way of life most of us know little about . ... a film that is at once a delicate , moving drama and a vibrant city symphony , offering a predawn view of New York seldom captured on film . The melancholy story is told with empathy and restraint ; Ahmad 's unmoving face is a mask of loss , but he never lets go of his dignity . Man Push Cart is a solemn mood piece that hovers somewhere between bittersweet and despairing . Ahmad ( Ahmad Razvi ) , the Pakistani immigrant who is the protagonist of Ramin Bahrani 's Man Push Cart , goes through a Sisyphean daily grind . Recalling Italian neorealist movies such as The Bicycle Thief , Man Push Cart is a slice of a very sad life . 	This compassionate portrait of a New York City street vendor is as beautiful as it is melancholy .
somers town It 's a slight , gentle , sweet-natured comedy shot in black and white , and blessed with a lovely performance from Meadows ' great find , Thomas Turgoose . Somers Town is Meadows ' first venture outside his East Midlands stamping-ground . It has its lyrical moments , but I watched most of it through splayed fingers . Shane Meadows has a rare ability to convey the drama and humor of everyday life in well-observed , well-acted scenes that rarely drag on interminably or try too hard to dazzle . Meadows is adamant that there was no corporate influence . But even without the benefit of the doubt , it ca n't be denied that his extended short carries some sweet observations . This modest but amicable tale has more depth and more spirit than many films twice its length . If Somers Town were any more unassuming , it would risk disappearing completely . Seventy-two minutes long , in black and white , with a cast as starless as a cloudy night , it is a British triumph . Somers Town is not Shane Meadows ' best film , but it has his finest qualities : an appreciation of British working-class life as detailed as Ken Loach 's , characterizations as realistic as Mike Leigh 's and an interest in adolescent male impudence and longing Meadows gives his film so much forward thrust it feels like a road movie as it follows the ramblings of his two young leads . It is proof that there are all sorts of teenage lives going on in Britain , and sometimes , their most magical moments take place on dead-end streets . Like its star , the movie is too short and a little thin but just about perfect . 	Shane Meadows hits the spot with this short but sweet slice of good natured comedy , surprisingly , as it 's essentially an extended black & white advert for a train station .
pirates of the caribbean the curse of the black pearl Swashbuckling adventures are few and far between these days , so it 's a pleasant surprise to see one that is competently made . Wonderful swashbuckling adventure that delivers everything you could possibly want from a pirate movie , plus a little more besides -- jaw-dropping special effects , a superb script and a show-stealing performance from Johnny Depp . A bit overlong and quite bloody for a brainless action movie , but it is generally fun to watch . It 's a rare thing when I come out of a movie theater these days saying the words , 'Geez , I hope they do a sequel to this thing . ' If you 're weary of summer movies that play like extended MTV videos , you 'll luxuriate in Mr. Verbinski 's purely cinematic technique . It epitomizes exactly the sort of empty professionalism that Spielberg gets wrongly accused of . At , say , 85 minutes , this would have been a jolly little swashbuckler , but at 143 it turns into an unholy trial . Entertaining , exciting , and engrossing with a genuine feel of adventure along with excellent performances ... Same old , same old `` Pirates of the Caribbean can now officially take it 's place at the top of your summer movie 'to see ' list . '' 	May leave you exhausted like the theme park ride that inspired it ; however , you 'll have a good time when it 's over .
the believer An eccentric , difficult film , posing questions it ca n't answer , expecting viewers to be satisfied -- nay , fulfilled -- by a conflict with no resolution . A powerful , inflammatory film about religion that dares to question an ancient faith , and about hatred that offers no easy , comfortable resolution . The screenplay offers a complex premise and delivers on it in thought-provoking ways Mr. Bean 's diagnosis of Jewish self-hatred in The Believer may be misdirected in the present circumstances . Ryan Gosling gives an amazing performance . It 's powerful , disturbing , and terribly tragic . You can not watch this without being affected by it . A cinematic sucker punch . This willfully provocative film portrait offers lots of raging , vulgarity and shock but little insight into the character 's psychopathology . In this day of tidy trick endings , it 's a pleasure to watch a film in which the thorny issues only get thornier . That rare film that earns a most unusual compliment -- I wish it were longer . In the title role , Ryan Gosling is electrifying and terrifyingly convincing , but key people around him are so inadequately drawn as to be unpersuasive . 	Gosling commands the screen with a raw , electrifying performance .
mist The Mist is one of the best screamfests I 've seen in years , and a whale of an entertainment . Unusually dark and gritty , with ace B-movie writing and direction from Darabont and a collection of full-on performances from a gifted cast . It 's an old-fashioned spooker that gives the boogey-man more than a fighting chance , and leaves you more concerned about the evil out there than you were before you survived the experience . The Mist is a creature feature in which the monsters are almost incidental , but the panic and fear-mongering that comes with the territory is what ultimately causes the most chaos . The Mist paints [ its ] divides starkly -- perhaps a bit too much so -- but combined with its spooks and gore , it makes for effective , smart entertainment . As a allegory of the human condition , it kind of comes up short but as a straightforward monster movie , it is a fairly effective work that should entertain buffs and neophytes alike . That bloated sense of purpose turns what could have been a nifty B-movie into a strained , two-hours-plus Twilight Zone episode , and , believe me , Darabont 's no Rod Serling . Stephen King 's The Mist is a reminder of what a great horror movie is all about . A necessary throwback , a movie focused on building character , atmosphere and chills rather than on being merely a gory gross-out . The Mist has a lot of the elements to be one of the great horror films , but it never quite puts it all together . It 's still very good , but a few missteps keep it from ever being more than that . 	Frank Darabont 's impressive camerawork and politically incisive script make The Mist a truly frightening experience .
1016397-planet of the apes Pure shallow , dumb fun . one of my all time favourites Dismal SF deep think ( 1968 ) that gave birth to an equally dismal string of sequels and TV series spin-offs . The concept of humans humbled by apes inspires deep consideration of our place on the evolutionary ladder and in any supposed grand schemes . It 's all about the closing scene . Cool ! Signifying Monkeys As illuminatingly bleak a statement on human hubris as a Hollywood superproduction has given us . If you need to see any of the Apes ' films , this is the one to take in . A sci-fi classic that still holds up today and far surpasses Tim Burton 's remake . The monkey movie that started it all and the only memorable picture to come out of the laughable and sometimes unbearable saga of talking ape movies . 	Planet of the Apes raises thought-provoking questions about our culture without letting social commentary get in the way of the drama and action .
40 year old virgin With some serious editing , this could 've been one of the comedies of the year . As it is , it 's strictly one for the lads . The 40-Year-Old Virgin offers some sparkling insights about the cumulative effects of performance anxiety , about how guys struggle with the transit from boys to men with little help from their pals . An often very funny sex comedy . If only losing it was so good for everybody . ... THE 40-YEAR-OLD VIRGIN does it all , and it does it very , very well . One of the funniest movies ever made . At the risk of sounding like a party pooper , The 40-Year-Old Virgin is essentially the joke spelled out in the title stretched out for nearly two hours , with lots and lots of dead spots . Pretty good for a first time . Turns low-brow humor into high art . Carell provides more than enough pizzazz and boyishness to make this work as a comedy and a bit of a charmer . 	Steve Carell 's first star turn scores big with a tender treatment of its titular underdog , using raunchy but realistically funny comedy to connect with adult audiences .
flash of genius This is an inspirational melodrama derailed by the low stakes of the subject and the flaws of its hero . It 's an amazing and touching true story that will have you on the edge of your seat and may even cause you to shed a tear or two . A thoughtful inquiry into the doubtful benefits of pursuing one 's ideals 'to the end of the line , ' as they say in Double Indemnity . Too bad this real-life battle is framed as classic David-Goliath story for the socio-economic-scientific context and eccentric persona of Kearns ( well played by Kinnear ) and his invention are fascinating and could have been more dramatically absorbing . An endearing underdog yarn . If only the movie were more than intermittently interesting . ... a compelling courtroom drama - think Revenge of the Nerds crossed with To Kill a Mockingbird A fairly satisfying story of an underdog taking on the corporations that anyone can get behind , although it rarely feels like something so cinematic you might feel the need to rush to see it in theaters . This film rises slightly above convention thanks to Kinnear 's strong performance as its not entirely likable hero . A kamikaze flight of a movie that presents itself like a weighty Oscar contender . If there were a category for Best Unintentional Self-Parody , it would be a shoo-in . 	The touching underdog story of a single guy against a massive corporation , Flash of Genius is a well-paced and well-written tale with a standout performance by star Greg Kinnear .
10009063-perfect holiday The Perfect Holiday , directed by Lance Rivera , is that most dispiriting product , a formulaic movie that does n't believe in itself . The dialogue is so one-note , the plot absurd , and most attempts at humor fall flat . [ Queen Latifah and Terrence Howard ] may be a draw , but it 's too bad no one thought the endearing performances in this charming ( if clich ) family romance would be enough . Despite the flabby direction and uninspired plot , The Perfect Holiday almost works because Chestnut and Union are an attractive couple and you want them to get together . Queen Latifah and Terrence Howard act as commentators , nudging the contrivances this way and that . Belying its title , the film does little to inspire good cheer toward its various imperfections . Maybe I should find Santa and ask for better films . You 'll certainly wish I had if you 're unfortunate enough to sit through this 'gift . ' The Perfect Holiday , as many a holiday movie before it , meticulously goes through the motions , but never quite finds the magic of the season . For fans of lousy seasonal cheer , Dec. 25 comes early . It 's a shame that Gabrielle Union ca n't get better scripts than this one . Ostensibly a Christmastime comedy about romance , The Perfect Holiday manages to be none of the above . 	The Perfect Holiday is the perfect example of Christmas movie clichs run amok .
punchdrunk love It 's odd , interesting , and proves that love does conquer all ... literally . We 're going to go out on a limb and say that Punch-Drunk Love will probably be the best movie ever to star Adam Sandler . It has a profusion of confusion , a pseudo-autistic hero , and a stream of nonsequitirs . It 's also not entirely bad . Rather slight , with a sweet-and-sour mood that does n't quite gel ... a comparatively lightweight piece that dissipates as soon as the final credits roll . An empty exercise in style that will please no one but the most devout followers of P.T . a visually gorgeous film , one that makes exquisite use of widescreen composition , bold color schemes , and evocative moments of silhouette Anderson has created the kind of unconventional 'romantic comedy ' we might expect from him . Sandler may never play 'Othello ' but he does a knockout job in playing to a house of non-MTV people . ... an angry , raw , shockingly beautiful romantic comedy that tests the limits of our every expectation . One of the best and most poignant films of 2002 ... 	Odd , touching , and unique , Punch-Drunk Love is also delightfully funny , utilizing Adam Sandler 's comic persona to explore the life of a lonely guy who finds love .
rat race Expert comic performers and a broad script that avoids mean-spiritedness create surprising laughs . If you want a good time and like old movies , see this . ... an old-fashioned , non-offensive physical comedy that huffs and puffs and ultimately blows itself down . Despite the laughs and a script that moves briskly from one joke to the next , the actors ( all talented in their own righta ) do n't work together as a team to create a compelling story . The movie is so cheerfully , furiously relentless , its contagious silliness wears you down . Zucker instinctively knows how far to push the crude and uncouth , and when to retreat into the merely goofy . These people , and the actors who play them , work so very hard that just watching them tires you out . It is outrageous , cheerfully vulgar , undeniably lowbrow , and very , very funny . Bar none , the funniest film of the summer . ... a handful of downright hilarious moments , another dozen chuckles and about 60 dead-on-arrival comedic misfires . 	Rat Race moves from one sight gag to another , but only a handful of them are genuinely funny .
1021015-ten commandments Still the definitive depiction of the Exodus in the popular imagination . DeMille 's direction of the action is superb and the various roles are played with feeling by a large and competent cast , headed by Charlton Heston . DeMille 's last film ( he died in 1959 ) is also his biggest , most spectacular epic , excessive and lurid , displaying him as a showman -- must see for Hollywood students It seems as if some films are perpetually being restored , with each new version touted as better than the last . That said , I can assure you that the new DVD and Blu-ray edition of ... Heston may as well be screaming about Soylent Green , but damn if he does n't make for one hell of an inspiring leader . It 's the gigantic vulgarity , the obsessive righteousness of the director himself , which keeps the show on the road and suffuses the movie with its daft power . Anything worth doing is worth overdoing in DeMille 's ponderous , yet still colossal , Biblical soap opera . Big , hokey , and unintentionally funny . The Ten Commandments ( 1956 ) , Cecil B . De Mille 's most spectacular epic and last film . Although a blockbuster , the film reverts to melodramatic style , There is no other picture like it . There will be none . If it could be summed up in a word , the word would be sublime . And the man responsible for that , when all is said and done is Cecil B. DeMille . 	Bombastic and occasionally silly but extravagantly entertaining , Cecil B. DeMille 's all-star spectacular is a muscular retelling of the great Bible story .
first blood a powerful , complex and captivating film that serves as a blockbuster action film and a serious drama Now that 's ballsy . Call it macho crap . Call it mindless escapism . Call it Stallone 's grand posturing . In fact , call it all of the above . ... does get loonier as it goes along , yet for a while it 's actually a mournful and sobering action-movie treatment of postwar stress . The first Rambo movie has more depth than many give it credit for . As befits a story of internal conflict , Ted Kotcheff lays out the action in an adroit style derived from Anthony Mann ... First Blood primarily comes off as a relatively tame survivalism flick ... Stallone 's dogged tale of survival seems so fresh you 'd swear it was made last week . . . except for the sad truth that they do n't make 'em like that anymore . Even the biggest fans of this type of film must acknowledge that this is an embarrassingly sloppy production . This is a dark drama about war and the exorcising of demons , and an unforgettable one at that . 	Much darker and sensitive than the sequels it spawned , First Blood is a thrilling survival adventure that takes full advantage of Sylvester Stallone 's acting skills .
saw v Saw V is a bloody bore from beginning to end and the only scenes in the movie that come close to being scary are the ones that seem to have been inserted solely to set up a possible Saw VI . The Saw franchise cut its teeth with macabre MacGyver gimmicks and buckets of bloodshed . Acting was never a consideration . And when you 're racking in millions upon millions with next to no budget , why start vying for Oscars now ? The latest and least of the Saw films is just plain boring and even a little tame -- albeit by the standards of a genre that helped bring the phrase `` torture porn '' into the lexicon . Now I can officially say that the SAW franchise has run out of gas . Everything and everyone is just going through the motions here . A cut above its pretentious predecessors ; the graphic set-pieces -- including an opening inspired by Poe 's 'The Pit and the Pendulum ' -- deliver the gory goods . Saw V is a terrible combination : grisly and tedious . Let 's just call it bloody dull . The driving force is inertia and commercial calculation , not inspiration . Beyond entertaining fans with variations on the life-or-death challenges that seemed so startlingly fresh a mere four years ago , Saw V 's primary purpose seems to be setting up a new series of films featuring Hoffman as the evil puppet-master . Wheth An insult to fourth-rate ripoffs of Se7en , and even that may not be harsh enough . Unfortunately , both Mandylor and Scott Patterson , who returns as fellow Saw IV survivor Agent Strahm , are uninteresting stiffs 	If its plot were as interesting as its torture devices , or its violence less painful than its performances , perhaps Saw V might not feel like it was running on fumes .
frida Taymor 's triumph is that her film , despite its distance from us in some ways , is pertinent and enthralling . Graphic biopic of artist Frida Kahlo . La de Salma es una versin de Frida superficial , preciosista y sin ningn contenido . Frida is certainly no disaster , but neither is it the Kahlo movie Frida fans have been looking for . Not bad , not great -- fine , I suppose . Frida is a film that celebrates but never sugarcoats the hard but exciting life of a brave artist . While Hayek 's portrayal is appealing and sincere , it 's a shade too adoring . She does n't convey the excruciating pain that besieged Kahlo . Visually engrossing , seldom hammy , honorably Mexican and burns its Kahlories with conviction . Frida would not exist without Hayek , and the sad irony is it would be so much better without her . It 's just disappointingly superficial -- a movie that has all the elements necessary to be a fascinating , involving character study , but never does more than scratch the surface . 	Frida is a passionate , visually striking biopic about the larger-than-life artist .
ghost world Buscemi makes Seymour into a character you simply want to see again and again . ... a very distinctive , offbeat and poignant endeavor , steeped in rich performances and characterizations and bursting with inevitable wisdom . A collection of perfectly memorable moments Misfits of all stripes ( and who does n't secretly feel like one ? ) will find that this film is spot-on . Ghost World conforms reasonably well to the pattern of a traditional comedy while keeping its shaggy , haphazard comic-novel edge . his is 'teen comedy ' of startling sophistication -- with horribly funny bits as well . A true original , with sharp humour , subtle detail and painfully realistic characters . Has many pleasures , not the least of which are some devilishly good performances . A wonderful , needle-sharp comedy of alienation . A breath of fresh air in a mostly stale cinematic world where filmmakers might take financial chances , but usually not artistic risks . One movie that kids should really bring their parents to . 	With acerbic wit , Terry Zwigoff fashions Daniel Clowes ' graphic novel into an intelligent , comedic trip through deadpan teen angst .
night at the museum Night at the Museum 's sense of wonder , cynical and calculated though it may be , does give it some-dare we say ? -social value . Just like 'Sack-a ja-we-a ' , let us guide you to a little treasure at the museum . It 's never too late to enjoy a little holiday fantasy , such as spending a Night at the Museum . It 's a better than average CGI-fest , more often silly than funny . But it makes some good points about courage , self-respect , and the importance of learning about history . Ben Stiller and gang still manage to give the delightfully entertaining Night at the Museum a little edge . This is a good example of Hollywood commercial calculation that actually pays off with a few entertainment dividends . It all seems very cold and calculated , and yet the film still turns out to be decently entertaining . For parents comfortable with drop-off , A Night at the Museum could serve as A Night Away From Your Kids . Night at the Museum is n't an utter disaster but it is a dreary special effects-laden fantasy adventure with zero thrills and only intermittent heart . Like the institution it portrays , Night at the Museum comes alive after dark . It 's a perfect movie to take the kids to . Who knows , it might even inspire them to want to visit an actual museum . Good idea . Bad execution . 	Parents might call this either a spectacle-filled adventure or a shallow and vapid CG-fest , depending on whether they choose to embrace this on the same level as their kids .
battle in heaven A hypnotic , ruminative examination of class , religion , and sexuality in contemporary Mexico , Carlos Reygadas ' Battle in Heaven is cinema at its most polarizing . Overexposed and underdeveloped . he film 's pallid emotional tone , which is in sync with the constancy of the dull gray sky overhead , can make it a hard story to embrace . ... a tawdry march through the lives of a bunch of slow-witted , thyroid-impaired moral imbeciles . Reygadas ' artful but ponderous camerawork succeeds only in turning the intimately exploitative ... into something emotionally distant and stupefyingly dull . A riveting work for anyone interested in how filmmaking devices can be used to make the whole greater than the sum of its individual parts . There 's more to this controversial and aesthetically cold film than just its explicit sex scenes . Honest . The outcome often amounts to an impressive slideshow instead of a fluid , substantial piece of work that involves and challenges us . Really boring , pointless and , well , bad . I 'd be lying if I did n't say this is one of the more original and piercing films I 've seen in awhile . 	Though it tries to be provocative , Battle in Heaven is lethargic and mind-numbing .
never been kissed As light entertainment it certainly makes the grade . Never Been Kissed is a good romantic comedy , thanks mainly to Drew Barrymore 's fabulous performance as a clumsy reporter trying to fit in as an undercover high school student . This kind of dippy , silly drivel has no right to succeed , yet it does ... Endearing stuff punctuated by some genuinely hysterical moments . Seriously flawed ! The film 's ending is so hokey that it becomes almost a parody , but Barrymore 's innocent charisma gives its such grace that it becomes a perfect cap to a precious movie . Barrymore and Arquette take their performances to heart and are clearly having a ball with the material , but it 's Gosnell 's solid direction that keeps the film afloat . The film succeeds on the astonishing merits of its leading lady and her superior supporting cast . Barrymore again displays her remarkable ability to get the audience rooting for her singular blend of vulnerability and sunny optimism . A winning romantic comedy that is a fetching crowd pleaser , despite plot holes and a dose of overkill . 	Unoriginal and unremarkable high school satire adds little to the genre .
owning mahowny Watching Hoffman completely give himself over to his addiction is pretty draining . Although the film has a subtext ... it 's basically a ride down to the bottom with an addict . A claustrophobic little movie , Hoffman is ideal as the pensive bean counter , suffused in flop sweat , who lets it ride all the time . ... this human car wreck methodically spins itself out with agonizing inevitability ... that the film is also quite funny is an unexpected bonus . This is a small story , as quiet and unassuming as its main character . And , like Mahowny , it makes few wrong moves and quite a few right ones . Philip Seymour Hoffman 's performance is a masterpiece of discipline and precision . The film does n't really offer much behind its story . Whether or not you think of gambling as a vice , you can bet on Owning Mahowny . Works so well both as social satire and outlaw character study . In the acting department , there 's nobody on the current scene with more sheer talent -- or offbeat charisma -- than Philip Seymour Hoffman , in whose bearish body nestles the heart of a lithe and limber artist . The filmmakers have taken a bet that an unsexy , unpretty and unconventional movie about bank robbery and gambling can be as captivating as its flashier mainstream counterparts , and they 've won . 	This story of addiction may lack the typical flash and glamour , but Hoffman makes Mahowny compelling .
raise your voice A boring , badly written , cliche-heavy outing with lousy production values , various moral messages unfit for childhood consumption and songs from the known-carcinogen school of pop . When Homer Simpson takes a can of Duff beer and crushes it against his thick skull , it 's curious how the resulting object has all the dimension of one of Hilary Duff 's roles . It 's all very formulaic and fatuous . Hilary Duff 's latest vehicle ought to be a hearse carrying the ashes of her career . McNamara seems to have no idea about how to move things along at a pace designed to keep us interested . Loaded with so much drama that the story sinks into a grim , sloppy soap-opera mix . Proves Hilary Duff is here to stay . Is it corny at times ? Definitely , but sometimes corn is good for you . The filmmakers make a big show of striving for sincerity and substance , but they so load the dice that their movie is heavy-going from start to finish . Bad in so many departments that pointing out the flaws is like shooting fish in a barrel . Duff has more hairdos than facial expressions , but the movie is designed around the one she has down pat , a sort of sweet `` I do n't know I 'm adorable '' sort of look . 	A bland , formulaic tween version of Fame .
silence of the lambs The Academy also rightly awarded Best Actress to Foster for being the heart and soul of the piece . the best serial-killer movie , ever ! The over-the-top story reeks of phoniness , grisly violence and exploitation . It 's a gnarled , brutal , highly manipulative film that , at its center , seems morally indefensible . This multi-Oscar-winning classic , adapted from Thomas Harris 's bestseller , was responsible for giving cinematic serial killers a better image , thanks to Anthony Hopkins 's enthralling portrayal of Hannibal Lecter . The Silence of the Lambs is pop film making of a high order . It could well be the first big hit of the year . Not since The Exorcist had a horror flick been this applauded ! It was almost as if ... `` horror '' were its own legitimate genre ! This is the grandest guignol Hollywood has produced in years . A terrifying psychological drama about a brave modern day woman warrior . Hopkins ' performance may be the film 's bravura showpiece , but Foster 's goes the whole distance , steadfast , controlled , heartbreakingly insightful , a fine addition to her gallery of characterizations . 	Director Jonathan Demme 's smart , taut thriller teeters on the edge between psychological study and all-out horror , and benefits greatly from stellar performances by Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster .
1065684-braveheart Good acting , shotmaking and a charismatic lead role alone wo n't grant you a pass to Kubrick country . Nor even to Costner country . A violent , utterly passionate epic . Though the film dawdles a bit with the shimmery , dappled love stuff involving Wallace with a Scottish peasant and a French princess , the action will pin you to your seat . Gibson 's raw energy and storytelling power in Braveheart are undeniable . If the film does n't meet his ambitions , it 's because he set the bar so high . With a sweeping look , lots of emotion , a classic hero , occasionally corny dialogue and forced romances , Braveheart is a flawed classic . As the star of the new , epic-scaled Braveheart , Gibson celebrates yet another man of selfless valor . And as its director , he displays some daring of his own . A vastly entertaining and powerful film . In addtion to starring in the film , Gibson also directs it , and does so impressively . A grand cinematic adventure . If you prefer your movies to be more than just one man 's ego trip , it 's an impediment to fully enjoying what is otherwise an awesome-looking and powerful bloody epic . 	Distractingly violent and historically dodgy , Mel Gibson 's Braveheart justifies its epic length by delivering enough sweeping action , drama , and romance to match its ambition .
le gout des autres 2000 Jaoui ... has an unerring eye for the things men and women do to impress each other . It 's actually quite entertaining , which is very strange for modern French cinema . Masters the cinema 's toughest special effect -- naturalism -- and hits every nail on the head . This warm , funny , all too human story is about how people 's myopia can lead them astray in their search for happiness . The more we see of these people , the more we understand their foibles and the more they amuse and captivate us . Utterly delightful . A genial yet insightful comedy-drama , a film of rare grace and honest humor . It is an interesting character study as far as it goes , but it seems a bit slight and low-key . It is n't simplistic , but it is n't all that rich and complex , either . There are some things the French do better than we do , and the small movie is one . Will entertain and provoke , and leave a flavorful memory behind . 	The Taste of Others is a fresh , witty comedy about the attraction of opposites . The characters are well-drawn and engaging and their social interactions believable .
the raid redemption The Raid : Redemption boasts an outstanding showcase of martial arts and stuntwork . The story might be thin , and the fighting a little repetitive , but The Raid is a knockout low-budget actioner . Get your mates together and bear witness to an instant action movie classic . Gareth Evans has delivered quite the action thriller with The Raid . Its premise is brilliant in its simplicity , its hero worthy of our cheers and villains deserving of our fear and scorn . Shaky cam is dead . Long live this new era of action cinema . This is a film that serves as a reminder of just how wonderfully cinematic violence can be . That the action is vivid and for the most part , unrelenting , is indisputable , but the brain , consistently pummelled as it witnesses bloody orgy after bloody orgy , is undernourished in all other respects . Director Gareth Huw Evans uses the confined halls and apartments to create some staggering acrobatics and choreographed mayhem that will have you applauding the stamina and talent of his giant team of stunt fighters . About 30 minutes into this Indonesian shoot-and-slash-'em-up someone grabs an ax , and the fun really begins . Not so much in the body count but the panache of the violence , the ingenuity of execution , in both senses of that word . Grindhouse action flick needs more redeeming qualities This adrenaline-fuelled spectacle of flying fists , whirling kicks and spurting blood will leave you breathless , exhilarated and shouting for more . A slam-bang , knock-your-socks-off action bonanza with some of the most peerlessly shot , performed and choreographed fight sequences you 're likely to see on screen . 	No frills and all thrills , The Raid : Redemption is an inventive action film expertly paced and edited for maximum entertainment .
bridges of madison county Utter pap , redeemed only by the professionalism of its stars in sub-standard material . Those who found Waller 's book an outrageously bad read may be gratefully surprised to find less mush in the movie . I 've seen the movie twice now and was even more involved the second time , because I was able to pay more attention to the nuances of voice and gesture . Eastwood 's Robert Kincaid -- made out in the book to be some sort of quasi-mythical cross between the Marlboro Man and Ralph Waldo Emerson -- is toned down so much as to be almost uncompelling . Limited by the vapidity of this material while he trims its excesses with the requisite machete , Mr. Eastwood locates a moving , elegiac love story at the heart of Mr. Waller 's self-congratulatory overkill . Despite all his craft and sincerity , [ Eastwood ] and screenwriter Richard LaGravenese ca n't quite turn Robert James Waller 's cardboard best-seller into flesh and bone . Considering the turgid potboiler it 's based on , we should be grateful Eastwood achieved as much as he did . Bridges is an admirable achievement , one that probably does more to reposition its maker as someone who can carry a movie without carrying a gun than as the director/star of a Love Story for the Loving Care set . Streep makes her character known in no time flat . Intelligence , humor , blocked ambition , self-irony -- they 're all contained in Francesca 's quick response when Robert asks if she has any plans for the afternoon . Bridges is an old-fashioned `` women 's film '' that pits the heroine 's romantic urges against her matriarchal duties . In fact , the film is at its dramatic best when Francesca is finally obliged , like Sophie , to make her choice . 	Sentimental , slow , schmaltzy , and very satisfying , The Bridges of Madison County finds Clint Eastwood adapting a bestseller with heft , wit , and grace .
shrek 3 This new Shrek film is overburdened with a `` been there , done that '' feeling . Shrek standing up for himself means insisting that he is not King material , despite the fact that everyone around him believes he 'd be a great leader . Shrek the Third sticks to the swamp it knows best , in a mild climate of palatable jokes about fatherhood , high school , girl power , and a drug-education program for teens that advises ''Just Say Nay . '' Shrek returns in a warm-hearted film that takes the next step in his character evolution - and keeps us laughing all the way . Another great lesson for the children . When the green is guaranteed , you can put as little effort as possible into your project . In the end , Shrek the Third , like so many Hollywood animation movies today , neither trusts itself nor cares to create any new magic . If it were a child in a classroom , it would be the back-row smart arse , rather than the poetic dreamer . There 's no disguising the fact that Shrek the Third has come down with a bad case of sequelitis . You know the symptoms : Lots of razzle-dazzle to distract from the hole at the center of the story . You know , the place where fresh ideas should be . There 's no doubt Shrek The Third will make potloads of money . Pity it shortchanges the audience with an underwhelming plot and characters you sense are just going through the motions . When it 's good it 's great . Overall , though , the magic is lacking . It jumps the Shrek . No wonder Donkey and Puss in Boots get pushed aside . They have to make way for big bull in this disengenous , lifeless sequel that preaches individual destiny but behaves just like the cashcow it 's been groomed to be . Feels sluggish and tired ; its relentless , not-so-great gags hit with the soft thud of stone-hard bread crumbs . 	Shrek the Third has pop culture potshots galore , but at the expense of the heart , charm , and wit that made the first two Shreks classics .
xfiles fight the future Move along . Nothing to see here . As it is , pic serves up set-pieces and a measure of scope that are beyond TV size but remain rather underwhelming by feature standards . If you watch the show religiously , you 've probably already seen it this weekend . Chris Carter had the daunting task of pleasing fans of the show , while at the same time not alienating those new to it . It 's a balancing act that he mostly achieved , but in the end it 's probably best enjoyed by those who are already fans . The paradox of both the show and the movie is that , like its investigative protagonists , it is both hysterically paranoid and rigorously rational . It 's a great way to relieve the anxiety that the series ' endless mysteries have built . Instead of living up to the hype that the truth would be revealed , the truth was buried and I 'm not even interested in looking for it further . A most unusual summer blockbuster : one that delivers the thrilling goods with an uncommon dose of intelligence and complexity . It 's refreshing to see Hollywood make a movie that is n't dumb , and that does n't talk down to its audience . It 's really not worth going into the performances of Duchovny and Anderson . Basically , they act intense , surprised and smart . 	Results may vary for newcomers , but fans of the series will enjoy its big-screen transition .
russian dolls Great fun , thanks to the sparkling dialogue , entertaining performances , and the gorgeous scenery of Paris , London and St. Petersburg . A sort of wandering rom-com epic -- kicking romantic fallacies in the ribs while capturing something essential about the solipsism and dreams of young urbanites . Klapisch is daring you to call him sentimental . He is . But , as he proves in a sublime ending , he 's magical too . Anyone who loved L'Auberge Espagnole should at least like its sequel as something of a guilty fling . Cdric Klapisch 's Russian Dolls has not much on its mind beyond updating the lives of the characters in his 2002 comedy L'Auberge Espagnole . The cast of renegades is as appealing as ever . 'Russian Dolls ' is not an intellectually cohesive movie , but it 's so much exuberant fun , it does n't matter Essentially this is Espagnole on repeat , as if the lessons from the former film had been fully expunged after five years on ice . Russian Dolls might not have as many layers as its namesake but when it 's this sweet and feisty , it does n't really matter . The actors create engaging characterizations of young people continually evolving . 	Like its predecessor L'Auberge Espagnole , Russian Dolls is charmingly breezy and light .
wargames Memory makes the heart grow fonder , even when you 're blowing up the world . One of the early films to warn about the dangers of hackers and the possibilities of computers controlling our lives . As a premise for a thriller , this is a masterstroke . Dated now , due to computer tech , but still tense . The only drawback is that the film 's anti-nuke message seems a bit heavy-handed at times . It is hard , though , to imagine any message being more entertainingly delivered . Suspenseful Cold War tale with teen gamer in control . Time might not have been kind to the look of WarGames , but with nuclear war still a very real threat , the picture 's ability to manufacture suspense remains undimmed . The chase sequences with government agents are tame but the film builds to a tense ( and witty ) conclusion at the Cheyenne Mountain nuclear bunker in Colorado Springs . John Badham solders the pieces into a terrifically exciting story charged by an irresistible idea : an extra-smart kid can get the world into a whole lot of trouble that it also takes the same extra-smart kid to rescue it from . It 's far too simplistic for comfort -- and downright dangerous if it makes anyone think today 's self-destructive forces will bow jovially out of sight as soon as we grown-ups loosen up a little . 	Part delightfully tense techno-thriller , part refreshingly unpatronizing teen drama , WarGames is one of the more inventive -- and genuinely suspenseful -- Cold War movies of the 1980s .
spawn Spawn is a far from perfect movie , but interesting enough to make me look forward to the inevitable sequel . A misguided attempt to sanitize a concept whose most distinctive trait is its darkness . The nonsensical screenplay can barely stand-up to the hellzapoppin , ' Beelzebubbin ' effects mustered by first-time director Mark Dippe . This hopelessly redundant action gross-out aspires to a form of hip vacuousness -- and may achieve it . A movie where style and pacing are given center stage . The style is comic book and the pacing is fast , fast , fast . Dipp , an old SFX hand , needs to think about how to tell a story . The movie belongs to Jai White , whose eyes , voice and movements lock the audience into his heart and struggle . ... an incoherent blitz of noise , chintzy special effects and bargain-basement allegory . The movie is too crowded with go-nowhere , potential ideas ( lethal virus , U.S. imperialism , media watchdogging , racial and international conflicts ) and too content to let its awesome FX carry the essentially lame storyline . Has aged about as well as a banana in the sweltering sun ... 	Spawn is an overbearing , over-violent film that adds little to the comic book adaptation genre .
bring it on It 's another one of those high school pics that do n't really have much bearing on the real world . But as fluffy adolescent fantasy , it 's better than most . The movie ends with a collection of outtakes , and even those are n't funny . Maybe that 's because the whole film is sort of like an outtake . Showcases a trio of talented young actresses , captures the exuberant athleticism of competitive cheerleading and positively exudes good-hearted charisma . Pare away the vaguely salacious cheers and the occasional four-letter comebacks , and you have a Nickelodeon after-school special . Lightweight , but unexpectedly feelgood . Who cares about cheerleading ? The movie obviously does n't . Not bad for an August release , if you 're between the ages of 12 and 19 , or imagine you are . It almost makes a gal want to stand up and cheer . Nah . An agreeable diversion unsullied by undue depth or hidden meaning . Frantic but deadly dull 	Despite the formulaic , fluffy storyline , this movie is surprisingly fun to watch , mostly due to its high energy and how it humorously spoofs cheerleading instead of taking itself too seriously .
my dog skip Refreshing in its honest simplicity . No dog person can sit through this homespun , relaxed picture without shedding a tear . The movie does n't so much tug at your heart as give it a series of vigorous yanks . Many will find their tender emotion buttons bruised from the constant battering of the filmmakers ' oversized pointers . So riddled with live-action Disney movie clichs that I kept waiting for Cruella de Ville to show up and threaten to skin the dog alive . It 's worth the trip for kids and grown-ups , because they 'll find a quietly moving and powerful story ... Great boy-and-dog tale , but be prepared for tears . Grows on you like kudzu . The boy-dog formula takes viewers to surprising places and ends up an enchanting character study . Proves even the tiredest genre can be reinvigorated in the right hands . 	Critics say My Dog Skip is cute , wholesome entertainment for the family . It 's especially designed to appeal to your sentiment , but you might find yourself choking up just the same .
morning-glory-2010 [ A ] generally woeful comedy . It 's hard not to have fun at this delightful comedy which features strong performances from McAdams , Ford and Keaton . Ford is the most casual he 's been since Working Girl . When he and McAdams spar , you ca n't help but tune in . Michell 's seamless , steady direction lets McAdams 's energy shine through and allows Ford and his fellow news anchor Diane Keaton to craft beautifully timed comedic performances ... A good , simple comedy for what ails you ... it 's not stupid , just content to be a blithe entertainment . Morning Glory is a breezy , delightful fall comedy that sparkles from start to finish , a fresh , welcome edition amidst the solemnity of the current Oscar bait season . Maybe substance is more than we can hope for in a rom com , and we should be satisfied with a few laughs and smiles It 's formula entertainment , admittedly , but there 's real pleasure in seeing the equation worked out so cleverly . Sparkling performances by McAdams , Ford , Keaton , and Goldblum , brilliantly directed by Michell from a terrific script by McKenna make for a thoroughly entertaining romcom . The movie does show some welcome wit as it satirizes the idiocies of morning TV -- until it starts repeating itself in the second half . 	It 's lifted by affable performances from its impeccable cast , and it 's often charming -- but Morning Glory is also inconsistent and derivative .
hannah-montanamiley-cyrus-best-of-both-worlds-concert-tour For the parents at least , this filmed concert is probably better than actually being there . I found myself imagining boardrooms full of people going over market research about exactly which lime-green sneaker/jean jacket combo will get the maximum pop-lust response from the fans and create the biggest marketing opportunity . It 's great for kids to see that Miley does n't just wake up polished . She makes mistakes , she practices - there 's a learning curve and work involved . Fans are sure to enjoy . `` Cyrus is that pageant child often drawn in to the background whenever her dad Billy Ray is on set , and he even manages to attach himself in to her act ... '' $ 15 is a bargain compared to what scalpers were asking us to fork over so our little darlings could see their teen idol . Whether you like the music or not , you ca n't fault Miley -- this young lady works her petite fanny off performing for her fans , and she seems to be having a great time doing it ... With the disinterest of one not being badgered into coughing up $ 18 a ticket , what I saw felt a lot like the Barbie 's Playhouse version of Madonna 's Truth or Dare . For the teenage girl target market , there is no question the film delivers as it alternates between onstage performances and backstage insights Obviously , there 's no replicating the real thing . But it 's as close as you 'll come to achieving the best of both worlds . Hannah Montana & Miley Cyrus is Bubble Yum for the eyes and ears . But given the demographic , that works . 	This high-energy concert film should please Cyrus ' rabid pre-teen fan base -- and may come as a pleasant surprise for parents .
behind the candelabra The screenplay 's ability to keep us engaged and involved that the opulence loses its lustre and the things that matter in life rise to the top A mixture of extraordinary humour , fluent directing and edge-of-seat performances Amongst the sequins and sass , Soderbergh finds a tenderness that has sometimes been missing in his films . Part of the magic in Soderbergh 's thoroughly entertaining biopic on the life of flamboyant piano virtuoso Liberace comes from the way it strives to be as free-spirited , wily and simply irresistible as its subject . As a black comedy , and as a portrait of celebrity loneliness , Behind the Candelabra is very stylish and effective , and Damon and Douglas give supremely entertaining performances . If this really is the end of the road for Soderbergh , then what a class act to finish on . The production design is terrific , revelling not just in period detail but in all of Liberace 's excesses , and , typically , Soderbergh 's camera and use of music are never anything other than top notch . A film that could have been so very bad turns out to be pretty mah-velous . Douglas and Damon perfectly navigate the entire lifespan of a relationship from giddy freshness to screaming fights . Michael Douglas dazzles as Liberace , hard to imagine a more dynamic screen performance this year . Can this really be the hard nosed heart-throb who played Gordon Gecko ? 	Affectionate without sacrificing honesty , Behind the Candelabra couples award-worthy performances from Michael Douglas and Matt Damon with some typically sharp direction from Steven Soderbergh .
invasion A strong , proven premise , drained of almost all feeling and personality . Hirschbiegel 's Hollywood debut sporadically grips - but like Kidman and Craig 's characters , you 'll most likely end up battling to stay awake . Reflete a impassividade de seus viles , j que desenvolve sua narrativa potencialmente tensa de maneira insossa e pouco envolvente . For much of its running time The Invasion is a much better film than had been expected . Too bad the pod people are still running the executive suites . Hirschbiegel 's troubled remake has several good scenes and is by no means a disaster but it 's ultimately disappointing thanks to poor editing and clumsy writing . The movie offers plenty of smarts and imaginative distractions to counter the stacking of improbabilities . The Invasion , although it does some things awfully well , assumes that you are an idiot . Opting for car chases instead of the thought-provoking ideas of its predecessors , the film looks like the work of , if not pod people , folks who gave up any kind of passion for the material long before the cameras started to roll . Someone not so overexposed may find this a satisfyingly provocative creepfest . Yawn . Can someone explain to me exactly how a horror flick about a scourge that 's making humanity more civilized is supposed to be scary ? Not exactly edge of your seat excitement . 	The Invasion is slickly made , but it lacks psychological insight and thrills .
pauline and paulette An unexpectedly sweet story of sisterhood . A movie that does n't aim too high , but does n't need to . Not the kind of film that will appeal to a mainstream American audience , but there is a certain charm about the film that makes it a suitable entry into the fest circuit . The film hinges on its performances , and both leads are up to the task . Lovely Beligian film about a mentally challenged sixty-six year old woman who tutors all those around her in wide-eyed wonder . A perfectly charming , disarmingly moving little film . The only thing in Pauline and Paulette that you have n't seen before is a scene featuring a football field-sized Oriental rug crafted out of millions of vibrant flowers . ... a sweetly affecting story about four sisters who are coping , in one way or another , with life 's endgame . Tart , smart and satisfying . A Belgian gem on the twilight existence of four sisters of a certain age drawn together reluctantly by the need to care for one of their number . 	Pauline and Paulette is a gently poignant , compassionate tale .
1000355-adventures of robin hood In every department , the offer is flawless and under all conditions can not miss skyrocketing to tremendous grosses . Peerless action-adventure romp from the Golden Age of Hollywood . The Adventures of Robin Hood shows the studio system could produce works of pure energy and joy . There are classics and then there are Classics . This one 's required viewing for any self-respecting movie geek . Sumptuous and highly energetic , The Adventures of Robin Hood is grand with a capital 'G ' on every level . The archetypal Hollywood swashbuckler everything big-screen derring-do should be : rousing , lighthearted , witty , romantic , colorful , moralistic , and richly satisfying [ Flynn is ] the quintessential Robin Hood , jaunty , dashing , and fearless . The classic swashbukler . They do n't get better than this Movies like this are beyond criticism . Nearly every aspect of the Robin Hood myth we know today is embodied in this exciting , socially aware adventure . Perhaps the quintessential Errol Flynn vehicle ... 	Errol Flynn thrills as the legendary title character , and the film embodies the type of imaginative family adventure tailor-made for the silver screen .
flirting If you 're feeling nostalgic for the high of a first love , or you 're just plain high on love , anyway , then see Flirting . It will give you the warm fuzzy that you 've been looking for . The formulaic script finally had something to say toward the end . Surprisingly endearing and frequently funny . Truthful and compassionate . An intelligently written and marvelously acted coming-of-age tale set in rural Australia in the 1960s . Nowhere near as novel as The Year My Voice Broke ... .but still worthwhile This kind of emotional precision -- that is , this ability to make the subtlest psychological distinctions -- is a rare gift , and Duigan gets full mileage out of it . An absolute gem , and a treat not to be missed . Puts on display director John Duigan 's knack for conveying the universal anguish of adolescence An offbeat charmer 	A terrific follow-up to The Year My Voice Broke , Flirting is a teen movie worth watching , thanks to emotionally engaging performances and an endearing script .
saraband What remain intact are the filmmaker 's unbreakable heart , lyrical soul and sublime art . So why should we say goodbye ? Instead : Bravo . Encore . Saraband shows absolutely no sign that Bergman has run out of things to say or ways to say them -- it is as fresh and direct as any he 's made . Bergman may find little with which to console himself , but he 's still able to look at suffering with an intensity that 's unlike any other the movies have ever known . A good note to end on for a filmmaker renowned for his greatness . Like a wedge of low-grade Stravinsky , revived and performed , the movie could be considered an addendum to a looming and unique catalog , in which no work is insignificant . Bergman is still at the top of his game , every bit as much in control of his faculties for deciphering human misery . It is a luminous , sensuous examination of human relationships . Saraband is a commandingly restrained final composition and -- as the theme of classical musicianship suggests -- very much an affair of close attention to the nuances of performance . This is 'Scenes from a Marriage ' thirty years later . A haunting series of heartbreaking duets between people for whom love is distant and death is uncomfortably close . 	If Saraband appears to be a minor entry in Ingmar Bergman 's filmography , it 's still an accomplished piece of work from one of cinema 's greatest masters .
gloomy sunday An apocryphal , pretty , and somewhat pat biography of the title ballad . Long on atmosphere and Old World charm . This handsome , moving and romantic German drama is so well made and features such strong , funny and heartbreaking performances , that its sorrowful tone is tempered with consolation . A story of love , lust , betrayal , friendship , the power of music and greed . How much better can it get ? There 's a whiff of exploitation about any movie that claims the Holocaust as a 'backdrop , ' and Rolf Schbel 's treacly tale of three men lovesick for the same blue-eyed beauty fairly reeks of it . ou 'll have to amble through Gloomy Sunday 's less than remarkable , albeit haunting , first half ( but it ) swells up to a fitting bookend and zinger of a finish . A beautiful period piece . This strange movie has a hard time balancing all these elements , but the film 's enormous passion overcomes its more obvious melodrama . A smoothly crafted , intermittently charming film . . . the dips and turns are predictable and the tense scenes surrounding unhinged or scheming Nazis have been done before . It 's a stirring and provocative affirmation of the power and resilience of love . 	Gloomy Sunday is beautiful , well-acted , and every bit as downcast as its title .
pray the devil back to hell The story of the women 's groups -- Christian and Muslim , uniting for the first time in the nation 's history -- is unbelievably inspiring . [ A ] moving documentary about the tumultuous recent history of Liberia made by an all-female crew led by director Gini Reticker . Limitations aside , it 's highly stirring stuff . Pray the Devil remembers the golden rule of moviemaking -- rather than tell , it shows , and what it shows is quietly affecting . The greatest respect Gini Reticker 's Pray the Devil Back to Hell pays to its war-battered Liberian subjects is simply an unwillingness to embellish . Gini Reticker 's embracing documentary Pray the Devil Back to Hell shows how Taylor got his comeuppance from a coalition of tenacious Christian and Muslim women armed only with matching T-shirts . Although filling the watcher with the same sort of outrage that inspired the women to stand up and be counted , this is , at heart , a testimony to the power of solidarity and sisterhood through a single purpose . Some political documentaries suffer from overselling the urgency of their agenda , but director Gini Reticker 's Pray the Devil Back to Hell nicely underplays the significance of its subject . Inevitably , Reticker 's style falls into monotony that works against the material . Ultimately , though , the power of that material overcomes flaws in presentation . Pray The Devil Back To Hell is overly conventional as a documentary , but it 's inspiring as a rebuttal to the declining state of the world at large . 	This political documentary about protests during the Liberian Civil War is an uplifting celebration of the capacity of everyday people to affect great change .
on the waterfront What 's most amazing is to realize that the most important moments of this is something that director Kazan allowed the actors to improvise . Some of the best scenes , including the `` contender '' scene is all from the heart . It is thanks to Brando that this posthumous Popular Front classic is a heart-clutcher from beginning to end . So when does it hit you that you 're in the presence of movie greatness ? Authentic-looking , powerful film is concerned with the problems of trade unionism , corruption and racketeering . Screenwriter Budd Schulberg 's expos of the corruption in the dock workers ' unions won eight Oscars and remains as stirring as ever -- as does the performance of Marlon Brando . It 's one of those films that can inspire and touch an audience with a unviersal message , move people with an emotional and powerful dramatic storyline , and even get people to forgive anyone who is forced to rat on his friends . An astounding drama that 's still a contender almost 50 years on . Brando and Kazan achieve career bests in this alternately thrilling and moving drama . It is all the more grim and hard-hitting because of the steel-gray look of cinematographer Kaufman 's startling , neo-documentary approach . Retains the freshness of an original -- exploring the difficulties and corruptions of working stiffs with a realism , sensitivity and intelligence that has seldom been matched since . 	With his electrifying performance in Elia Kazan 's thought-provoking , expertly constructed melodrama , Marlon Brando redefined the possibilities of acting for film and helped permanently alter the cinematic landscape .
1000626-all about eve One of Hollywood 's finest backstage dramas . If nothing else Davis should have been rewarded for services to the tobacco industry . All About Eve is a film that you see completely differently once you know what 's going to happen . Is there anyone alive who has n't seen All About Eve -- anyone who does n't love movies , that is ? A motion picture that , because of its priceless dialogue and unforgettable lead performance , will never lose its luster . What makes the picture seem so good ( what makes it eminently worth seeing ) is the satirical touches in its detail and the performance of Bette Davis . One of the best send-ups of the inside back-stabbing and infighting that goes on in Hollywood ever put to film . Poucos roteiros , em toda a Histria do Cinema , conseguiram reunir tantos dilogos memorveis . No other movie makes being smart and cynical look like more fun . While its attitudes toward women are dated , its wit and perceptiveness are as fresh today as they were in 1950 . The peerless tale of two rival drama queens , playing as the central attraction in the BFI Southbank 's Joseph L Mankiewicz season , and rightly so . 	Smart , sophisticated , and devastatingly funny , All About Eve is a Hollywood classic that only improves with age .
ice age The film has too many spots where it 's on slippery footing , but is acceptable entertainment for the entire family and one that 's especially fit for the kiddies . I was ready , willing and able to let my heart be warmed , but there was no crescendo or mammoth emotional journey . While not quite `` Shrek '' or Monsters , Inc. '' , it 's not too bad . It 's worth taking the kids to . Has easily one of the best trailers ever , and that one long sequence shown in the trailer turns out to be the opening scene of the movie . From what I 've seen so far this year , Ice Age has got to be the leading contender for best animated film at this year 's Oscars . A revelation : a computer-generated film that brings an expressionistic sensibility to the three-dimensional world of CG images . If all of Ice Age had been about the tenacious rodent 's misadventures , the movie might have been a minor classic . But Scrat is a minor supporting character , and Ice Age is just passable entertainment . ... ranks up there in the highest class of animated features . Despite its flaws , Ice Age is fun and mercifully short , providing your youngsters enough time to finish their popcorn , but not enough to start fidgeting . Ice Age wo n't drop your jaw , but it will warm your heart , and I 'm giving it a strong thumbs up . 	Even though Ice Age is treading over the same grounds as Monsters , Inc. and Shrek , it has enough wit and laughs to stand on its own .
10008708-o jerusalem Good intentions often make bad movies . It 's hard to take the film seriously with [ its ] contrivances , including a hokey music score , dialogue designed solely to give us historical information . It 's no 'Exodus ' but is a reasonably involving primer on the birth of Israel in 1948 , specifically on the fighting for control of Jerusalem . A hopeful and helpful movie that depicts the friendship between a Jew and an Arab that outlasts the winds of war and the culture of revenge and racial hatred surrounding them . As a history lesson , the film is so elementary and silly that you 'd half-expect to find Mr. Peabody and Sherman peeking around the Wailing Wall . Even with its flaws , the film finds many moving moments as it surveys the ravages of a perpetually divided country . Unfortunately , French director Elie Chouraqui settles for speed and clich . Such fictionalizations are the stuff of TV miniseries , and only serve to add confusion and melodrama to a history that , as Collins and Lapierre 's book proves , hardly needs further dramatization . It aspires to be an epic drama but suffers from an acute identity crisis : It ca n't decide if it wants to be history , drama , or a cry for peace in the Mideast . Hammers away at its Arab/Jewish variation on the chicken-or-the-egg debate ad nauseam . 	Though a noble effort , O Jerusalem fails to combine this history lesson and human drama into a coherent cinematic piece .
ils se marierent et eurent beaucoup denfants 2005 The story in the French Happily Ever After is about as exciting as that bland , mistranslated title . But the filmmaking ? Very exciting . There 's very little wit , charm or even energy on display . If you ever get a chance to see Happily Ever After at any venue and in any form , drop everything and see it . full review in Greek Attal does n't illuminate Vincent 's motives for straying , and unwisely suggests Vincent 's philandering and Gabrielle 's daydreaming are somehow morally equivalent . Whether any of them will live happily ever after is a question you 're left pondering long after this challenging film comes to a close . This look at the assorted struggles of modern hetero coupledom gives off a distinctly moldy aroma . The main reason to see it is to witness a fine lady making the most of what she 's been given to play . A tremendously provocative date movie for couples brave enough to face each other afterward . This is terrific filmmaking . 	Though this French film features good acting , it lacks the wit and charm one would expect to see .
straight story One of the best pictures of the year . The Straight Story is the kind of triumph that most filmmakers as distinctively talented as David Lynch can only dream about . Farnsworth proves the greatest special effect is the human face . The screenplay by John Roach and Mary Sweeney finds poetry and truth . There is n't a single visible seam in his remarkable work here . Spend a nice Sunday with grandma . Take her out to brunch and then check out this movie . Sweet and simple with pleasures big and small . In short , Lynch as Republican . The story seems to reveal itself naturally , like a flower bud opening up . It has its own lazy charm and some unforgettable moments . 	Slow-paced but heart-warming .
baadasssss A reminder that good intentions do n't always make for good movies . Is it political ? You bet your asssss . The tribute is touching , not only in Van Peebles ' dedication , but also in his honest portrayal that does n't overlook dad 's periodic megalomania and paternal failures . Mario lacks the finesse as a filmmaker to deliver the nuanced portrait his father deserves , but he largely succeeds : We see Melvin as a flawed man , but one who worked for something larger than himself . It makes you wish a documentary had been made instead of a docudrama . Compelling storytelling from the opening frame to the final credits , led by a cigar-chomping iconoclast doing it by any means necessary . The love radiates off the screen in this cinematic valentine , as Mario pays moving tribute to the influential filmmaker he has the privilege of calling 'Dad . ' BAADASSSSS ! is a celebration of Melvin 's struggle to make Baadassss Song on his own terms despite an endless string of financial and personal mishaps . The rousing and irresistible story of the making of the 1971 action film Sweet Sweetback 's Baad Asssss Song . A marvelously entertaining and fascinating film . 	An entertaining and intriguing tribute to a father from his son .
the-social-network The Social Network succeeds , per journalism 's most basic directive , in showing not telling . And like great journalism , a great film can capture the reality of the present -- and even make art out of it . Because it tackles a big topic and has been made by an important director , critics have been working overtime to position it as some sort of defining film . It 's not . `` The Social Network '' has an unusually difficult task to pull off -- it has to make computer programming exciting -- and it does so with aplomb . One of the many remarkable things about David Fincher 's movie The Social Network is the constant realization , as you watch , that this movie should by all rights have been exceedingly dull . Nonetheless , having made the occupants of the White House seem believably human in The American President and in The West Wing , Sorkin knows it 's better to focus on his characters ' hearts , no matter how black , than their coding fingers The writing is strong , and the drama -- the drama of betrayal -- is ever present . This masterful , contentious and gripping biopic downloads us deep inside the control-alt-delete mind of the creator of Facebook , and then throws away the escape key . This is a beautifully made film by David Fincher with a superb screenplay by Aaron Sorkin . A riveting , era-defining picture that is guaranteed to make you feel very stupid in comparison and very , very poor . Fincher has delivered his best work since Seven . An even better period drama than Zodiac and even more relevant to our generation today than Fight Club . 	Impeccably scripted , beautifully directed , and filled with fine performances , The Social Network is a riveting , ambitious example of modern filmmaking at its finest .
requiem for a dream Jams se ha visto algo as en la narracin de la espiral asociada al mundo de las drogas ... By using familiar ploys and images only slightly askew of what television advertisements regularly show , Aronofsky manages to get across the sameness and pervasiveness of addictions of all sorts without becoming didactic . The most intense film of the entire year . A brilliant bringdown , a swirling evocation of nightmares , illusions and hallucinations . [ It ] may be a bummer to some audiences , so harsh is its view of the drug culture . But no one interested in the power and magic of movies should miss it . You ca n't walk out of this movie . If you want to leave , you 'll run . One of the most powerful I have ever seen . The film 's score and editing will haunt you for years to come . Translating this into a music video would make a lot more sense than the film does in present form Aronofsky rewrites the language of film to create a dizzying journey into the abyss . The best film of 2000 . Es una cinta de esas que se quedan grabadas fuertemente en la mente , provocando lo que casi ninguna cinta de esta poca de verano consigue : hacer pensar y reflexionar 	Though the movie may be too intense for some to stomach , the wonderful performances and the bleak imagery are hard to forget .
me myself and irene You might need an alter ego to dig this one . The funniest thing you 'll see this year . The Farrelly Brothers are back , but Me , Myself & Irene does n't match the charm and humor of There 's Something About Mary . Everything about Me , Myself & Irene lacks edge . Some of it just seems tedious and repetitive , as if the Farrelly brothers could n't decide where to take their Jekyll and Hyde idea . As highly talented as Carrey is , he ca n't make these abrupt physical and mental transitions the least bit convincing . The laughs roll out by the handfuls . The cinematic equivalent of a painful paper cut . Able-minded kids of all ages know that drooling at the dinner table can be an act of defiance . Me , Myself & Irene will satisfy Jim Carrey fans eager for a return to the contortionist slapstick that made him a star . 	While Jim Carrey 's comedic skills earn some laughs , Me , Myself and Irene sports a tired , unsatisfying plot .
sleepy hollow Burton piles on the artistic gore for this rendition . He just forgets to add the terror . Weighed down by a choppy script and a confusing story . We love Burton for his style , not his range . Sleepy Hollow has style in spades , no matter how often we 've seen it before . A film which looks great but , in the end , is not the sum of its body parts . A belated Halloween treat with more style than substance . Burton wins us over with the bravura of the film 's rich atmosphere and nightmarish imagery . Depp is as good here as he was in Ed Wood and Donnie Brasco , which means the movie has a lot more going for it than special effects , as sizzling as they are . Sleepy Hollow 's strength is in its look , which is jaw-droppingly beautiful , a personal best for director Tim Burton . Not devilishly funny enough to be a black comedy , not remotely scary enough to be an effective thriller , and too deficient in chemistry to be any kind of a romance . The visuals are so breathtaking , and the film initially so creepy , suspenseful and violent that the movie 's weaker points are for the most part well-hidden . 	Sleepy Hollow entertains with its stunning visuals and creepy atmosphere .
terminator genisys With its feet firmly planted in a new timeline , Genisys does what the last two Terminator films could n't : entertain . It 's a reheat of original masterpieces , yet instead of deconstructed and pieced back together with care and heart it 's merely zapped in a microwave , visually edible yet lacking taste and nutrition upon sample . Terminator Genisys suffers from a fussed-over , convoluted and self-referential screenplay that manages the feat of being both incredibly complicated and strangely simple-minded . Overall this genesis needed a little more incubation in the lab of its creator before going online . Screenwriters Laeta Kalogridis and Patrick Lussier pile on so many pulpy sci-fi conceits -- involving time travel , alternate realities , and the end of civilization -- that you might be carried along by the batty excess . Terminator Genisys feels like the film Cameron might have made if he continued the franchise . [ All ] the film gets right is bringing Schwarzenegger back , and finding a way to do it that is n't transparently idiotic . Terminator Genisys is a must-see summer movie made for those who yearn for the originals and those seeking new thrills . [ full review in Spanish ] The problem is that nothing carries much weight - not the stilted romance between Sarah and Kyle , not the effect-driven action sequences , not even the threat of apocalypse , with billions of lives supposedly in the balance . Manages to kill the canon that originated it . [ full review in Spanish ] 	Mired in its muddled mythology , Terminator : Genisys is a lurching retread that lacks the thematic depth , conceptual intelligence , or visual thrills that launched this once-mighty franchise .
hostel There is n't really much suspense or scariness in this film , but it is seriously nightmarish ... while there are few enjoyably over-the-top moments of gore , the movie is - on the whole - pretty tame ... This is routine Roth as usual . Homophobia , attempted nihilism , vapid writing , paper thin plot , and nonsensical all the way ... Quienes busquen lo ms parecido a una pesadilla a cambio del precio de una entrada , saldrn bastante satisfechos . ... nothing but a reined in gorefest for aficionados of torture , , and even they wo n't be happy until the director 's cut DVD is issued . Setting aside the question of the value of horror where the entire raison d'tre of the film lies in showing people being tortured and murdered , the very format is limited . Audiences either will embrace `` Hostel '' or they 'll feel , well , hostile toward it . Wants to be preeminent shock cinema , but does n't have the [ courage ] to fully follow through on its promise of unbridled carnage . The skill with which Eli Roth has constructed his film , especially its first 40 minutes , leads me to give it the benefit of the doubt . It 's creepy , gripping , horrifying stuff . Wherever you find genocide and human misery , a throng of American college students looking to get laid ca n't be far behind . 	Featuring lots of guts and gore , Hostel is a wildly entertaining corpse-filled journey -- assuming one is entertained by corpses , guts , and gore , that is .
nanking ... altogether gripping film . Nanking submits yet another reminder , if any more were needed , of how wickedness in the 20th century achieved dimensions previously considered unimaginable -- or unbearable . This painful documentary ends on a hopeful note , although with a clear view of the cloud over human nature . The filmmakers employ a powerful technique of interspersing newsreel footage with wrenching on-camera interviews of survivors and sequences of actors reciting from the letters and memoirs of the Westerners on the scene . Nanking is grim but ultimately uplifting , a reminder that even in dangerous times , brave individuals can hold the line against barbarism . A brutal introduction to events that should be better known . Nanking is a swift , incisive documentary about one of the lesser-known horrors of the 20th century . Nanking bombards you with words and images of acts too barbaric to fully absorb . An engrossing documentary on the atrocities committed in Nanking by Japanese soldiers and the courageous heroism of some expats in 1937 . an important historical record 	This powerful and horrific documentary brings the atrocities committed at Nanking to light without sugarcoating any of the brutality .
transsiberian A thriller aboard the Trans-Siberian line , stretching roughly 5,000 miles from Beijing to Moscow , should be a cinch , right ? Not so fast , Casey Jones . This is a slow , deliberate and carefully thought out piece for adults who like to savour rather than devour their thrills Though not one for literal smoke and mirrors , master of horror Brad Anderson , with his panache for arousing fear from harried reality and rotted atmosphere , is still a shaman . A queasy-making train thriller directed with vibrant visual panache by Brad Anderson . The limitations of its human characters aside , the movie has a terrific feel for the chilly , remote , attentively portrayed character of its environment . A handsomely remodeled variation of a cherished genre you might call the mystery-train movie . With its consistently clever and always unpredictable screenplay , fascinating setting , and stellar lead performance , Transsiberian is riveting from beginning to end . Transsiberian starts in neutral , taking the time to introduce its characters , and then goes from second into high like greased lightning . I was a little surprised to notice how thoroughly it wound me up . This is a good one . Does n't deserve a place among the classic train thrillers , but it offers enough cinematic amenities to be worth booking passage . And you wo n't need a sleeping compartment . Takes a more cerebral route , toying with your expectations only to give you something else , whispering hints of what fate might have in store for the characters after the credits roll . 	Traditional in form yet effective in execution , this taut thriller updates the `` danger on a train '' scenario with atmospheric sense .
1144029-appleseed The stock characters and leaden stretches of expository dialogue are welcome evidence that there 's still no computer program capable of telling a decent story . Even in a cartoon this technically astounding , most of the characters appear to have sprung from the DNA of Astro Boy . I really wish I could have liked this more . Despite swaths of verbal exposition and a tendency to overdose on robot action sequences , the film has enough originality to interest demanding fans of the genre . Unfortunately , the story is painfully recycled , heavily indebted to Blade Runner ( 1982 ) , along with healthy dollops of Beauty and the Beast , Isaac Asimov 's robot stories and the mythological echoes . The filmmakers are too busy trying to justify their futuristic world , and not enough actually exploring it . Yes , it looks good , but it does n't come close to exploring the grand themes it has in mind , or to ascending anywhere near the landmarks of anime . The supposedly human face of our metal-plated robocop 's partner -- the inevitable curvy female in a leather jump suit -- is an inexpressive , glossy doll mask , untouched by human hands . The film let 's us know early on that its cyberdrama will be served cold . Newbie viewers will be left twiddling their thumbs while waiting for Deunen 's next bout of butt-kicking action sequences . 	While visually arresting , Appleseed 's narrative and dialogue pondering existentialism is ponderous , awkward , and clumsy .
1040378-cool world It has a walloping visual style , though , returning filmmaker Ralph Bakshi to top form . Bakshi has carved out a niche for himself directing mixes of animation and live action , but he 's let down here by an unconvincing script and characters . Telling you that I liked Ralph Bakshi 's Cool World a whole lot more than I expected to is n't really saying a whole lot for the movie . Unfortunately , the film does n't have much else to offer beyond narrative incoherence and bad acting . One of my favorite movies that I did n't like . After the painstaking technical bravado of Roger Rabbit , it 's no longer possible to get away with scenes in which a cartoon has obviously just been pasted onto an actor 's wooden movements . Occasionally hints at being something great that was hacked down to size in both budget and time . Wanted to be the next Roger Rabbit . Turned out to be a watered down 'Fritz the Cat . ' A huge disappointment . Director Ralph Bakshi looked set to produce an adult version of Who Framed Roger Rabbit with this mix of animation and live action , but somewhere down the line it ran out of steam . 	Cool World throws a small handful of visual sparks , but they are n't enough to distract from the screenplay 's thin characters and scattered plot .
1011615-king kong There are very few works of cinema that stand up to repeated viewings and decades of changing film mores and audience expectations . Most notable among these is the classic King Kong . Original and still superior version of the classic story . What is scary is that this film special effects in this film actually looks better than its expensive remake several decades later ! King Kong exemplifies a sort of personal expressiveness and cinematic mysticism that 's all the more awesome for its apparent outmodedness . The greatest classic adventure-fantasy ( and part-horror ) film of all time is King Kong ( 1933 ) . Producers/directors Merian C. Cooper and Ernest B. Schoedsack Perhaps we have fallen in love with this movie because we distrust our civilization and feel betrayed that we have lost our sense of nature . A brilliantly structured adventure movie . King Kong es el termmetro obligado con el que se miden todas las pelculas de monstruos gigantes ; desde los voraces velociraptors hasta la maternal Godzilla Kong mystifies as well as it horrifies , and may open up a new medium for scaring babies via the screen . Still to this day it does n't come off as cheesy and that 's because the filmmakers never approached it as such . Beastly fun ! 	King Kong explores the soul of a monster -- making audiences scream and cry throughout the film -- in large part due to Kong 's breakthrough special effects .
sucker-punch-2010 My personal rule of film enjoyment goes a little like this : you can be miserable or pointless , but you ca n't be both . Sucker Punch works hard to be both . This movie is n't bad in the way some incompetently made movies are bad ; this is bad because there 's much skill evident in a pointless endeavor . Like watching someone channel-surf through five video game boss battles at the same time . There is so much front to this that traditional depths of character development and motivation are sidelined , but this is intentional , allowing the audience to immerse in the layers of dreams and later piece together what actually happened . Sucker Punch is Snyder 's first original screenplay , and though it confirms he 's among the most exciting action directors working today , it also reveals that storytelling is n't his strong suit . Snyder has described it as `` Alice In Wonderland with machine guns , '' but it 's more like The Pussycat Dolls Present Steampunk Kill Bill , only more assaultive and pandering than that description suggests . I ca n't be sure whether it 's brilliant or idiotic , although I 'm pretty confident it 's both , and not always in different places or at different moments . 'Sucker Punch ' is a film filled with emptiness and a hodgepodge of other films , it 's like watching an unofficial sequel to 'Showgirls ' with some 'Kill Bill ' and 'Battle LA ' thrown into the mix . Avoid at all costs . It would n't be quite accurate to call Sucker Punch the ultimate fan-boy film , but it 's a designation that nevertheless offers a near-perfect fit . It delivers on everything it promises , but it does n't promise much . 	It 's technically impressive and loaded with eye-catching images , but without characters or a plot to support them , all of Sucker Punch 's visual thrills are for naught .
monsters inc An irresistible bear hug of a movie . ... a terrific choice for the whole family , ... [ but compared to all of the previous Pixar films , it 's ] a bit of a disappointment . The humor is this film 's redeeming quality , and it carries its burden well , plopping in slapstick and burp jokes for the kids and a scathing satire of factory workplaces to make adults giggle . If Monsters Inc. is n't the `` instant classic '' that the Toy Story films are , well then it 's pretty damn close . [ A ] fixedly sweet bedtime story and exercise in imaginative possibility . You have to hand it to those guys at Pixar . They know how to take a universal childhood experience and extrapolate it into a highly entertaining , funny and frequently touching animated film experience . Once again , Pixar pushes the envelope on the art of computer graphics . The complexities of the script , while clever , will likely fly over the heads of most within its target demographic . Pixar is the best studio in Hollywood . Does Monsters , Inc. have what it takes to scare the 'S ' outta Shrek when it comes to digital animation supremacy ? Visually , yes . 	Clever , funny , and delightful to look at , Monsters , Inc. delivers another resounding example of how Pixar elevated the bar for modern all-ages animation .
bridget jones diary ... the best date flick to come down the pike in an awfully long time ... Zips along at a laugh-a-minute pace and fully involves the viewer in Bridget 's little slice of life . Makes for deft ( if weightless ) entertainment . presents us with a completely flawed , yet utterly lovable heroine who is so fundamentally human that it is impossible not to identify with her A wickedly funny ode to incurable romantics wherever they might live , love and lose . This ultra-hyped adaptation of the ultra-successful Helen Fielding novel sends you out with a smile on your face . An extremely entertaining movie . With great energy , style and humor , Maguire takes us into Bridget 's tumultuous journey out of spinsterhood and into the tumultuous world of dating . You feel like Diary is using its initial originality just to set you up for the same old thing . Oh , such fun for older teens ! 	Though there was controversy over the choice of casting , Zellweger 's Bridget Jones is a sympathetic , likable , funny character , giving this romantic comedy a lot of charm .
men in black [ A ] hilarious comedy , directed with boisterous wit by Barry Sonnenfeld . There was never any doubt that Will Smith would be funny ... What comes as a pleasant surprise is how funny Tommy Lee Jones is . Men in Black touches on that spirit of inconsequential and profound play that is the essence of the perfect summer movie . The real stand-out is D'Onofrio as Edgar , the cockroach on crack wearing a human skin , doing a splendid , hilarious job of auditioning for Evil Dead 4 . Independence Day for smart people . Though its charm is in its attitude and premise ( and Danny Elfman 's rousing score ) , Men in Black does have a serviceable plot that kicks in when a rusty flying saucer crash-lands in a rural area . The film 's technical team reflects exceptional stylistic harmony . For once , the summer formula works like a charm : two superstars , a couple of quirky sidekicks , a slew of special effects , a mess o ' smart-alecky remarks -- yet there 's still room for semi-believable characters and a sturdy story . Moments that should be hilarious muster only a chuckle and action scenes that should tingle -- like the final showdown with the unmasked giant roach -- are just not that exciting . Good old alien fun 	Thanks to a smart script , spectacular set pieces , and charismatic performances from its leads , Men in Black is an entirely satisfying summer blockbuster hit .
ichi the killer For those with an appreciation for weirdness , this is an extremist on form . Ultra-violent action from Japan 's leading cult director that plays fast and loose with genre conventions to deliver an innovative -- and frequently revolting -- work of cult Asian cinema . It could have been more deeply disturbing ; instead , it 's just shocking . Nothing short of a masterpiece -- and a challenging one . With Ichi the Killer , Takashi Miike , Japan 's wildest filmmaker gives us a crime fighter carrying more emotional baggage than Batman ... A sizzling , orgiastic celebration of bloodshed and depravity . Makes Audition and Visitor Q look like harmless chick flicks . There is a charm about the movie 's crazy camera angles and insistence on grabbing for silly visual jokes , but you ca n't quite call it a success . A film of considerable depth , intelligence and accomplishment that marks a new high point of maturity and consistency in its author 's work . Quite possibly the most gruesome film I 've ever seen , this live-action manga thriller at least has a vicious sense of humour amid the gore . 	Ichi The Killer is a thoroughly shocking gorefest that will surely entertain those with strong stomachs and a penchant for brutal violence .
1058517-little women The story of Little Women is given a new breath of life with this film , and it is still as relevant about our place in the world and overcoming its man-made obstacles as it was when it was written . Be prepared , however , for a large beaker of the milk of human kindness . It 's the performances ... that make this movie special . Meticulously crafted , and warmly acted . Ladies , get out your hand-hemmed handkerchiefs for the loveliest Little Women ever on screen . The sixth filming may well rank as the most beautiful and compelling version , though certainly some will still prefer George Cukor 's classic 1933 version . A little sappy . Vibrant and appealing screen interpretation of Louis May Alcott 's classic story about family as an evolving energy field of love . This time Winona Ryder plays Jo , and she is radiant . Director Gillian Armstrong 's feminist spin on classic material retains the moving humanity of Louisa May Alcott 's novel while reworking it with welcome freshness . 	Thanks to a powerhouse lineup of talented actresses , Gillian Armstrong 's take on Louisa May Alcott 's Little Women proves that a timeless story can succeed no matter how many times it 's told .
house of sand The images of the coastal desert of Maranho in northern Brazil are as beautiful to look at in Andrucha Waddington 's movie as the lives of her characters are hard to live . In describing The House of Sand , one ca n't help but use obvious metaphors like 'dry ' and 'arid , ' as they 're all too apt . An intriguing meditation on aging , the impermanence of time and man 's place in nature . What is here , is that life is not easy , and death certain for the generations of man ; but love lasts , and women are strong . The story plays out in the sensuous textures and hypnotic rhythms ... At once allegorical and grimly naturalistic -- a contemplation of the sands of time set amid the drifting dunes of Brazil 's unforgiving Maranahao desert . House of Sand boasts the hypnotic power of its landscape and a pair of powerful and passionate performances by Montenegro and Torres . Soarez is n't really saying much with House of Sand , beyond marveling at the quirks of fate brought on by time . But the acting keeps it from floating into the ether . Cinematographer Ricardo della Rosa ... has created images of rare beauty in the midst of terrain so spectacularly strange that it sometimes seems to speak a language all its own . If you let yourself get swept up in its ravishing imagery , and if you can accept its largely non-verbal poetic conceits , it sticks to you like grains of the substance that gives it its name . 	Beautifully filmed with wonderful performances , this Brazilian tale deftly explores the passage of time and prolonged isolation in several decades of a mother and daughter relationship .
i am number four It 's everything a teenage audience wants , with some romantic cues to ensure the boys bring the girls . I ca n't tell you how relieved I was to discover that `` I Am Number Four '' is not about Brett Favre . An amalgamation of better movies , I Am Number Four suffers from an acute case of slick film , wrong decade . For all of its homicidal aliens and toothy beasts , `` I Am Number Four '' did contain one element that genuinely unsettled me : the line `` produced by Michael Bay . '' Nooooooo ! In that way , I Am Number Four feels like a perfect DJ Caruso film . There 's nothing wrong with it , but it could be so much more . Trivial and trite , its days are numbered . More like I AM NUMBER TWO . There . All the cards are now on the table . The logic is dodgy , and the most frightening aspect is the sequel promised at the end . It populates itself not with characters but with puddle-shallow types who give the audience nothing to invest in . Was the original novel ... as cheesy as this ? 	It 's positioned as the start of a franchise , but I Am Number Four 's familiar plot and unconvincing performances add up to one noisy , derivative , and ultimately forgettable sci-fi thriller .
made So miscalculated and chafingly unfunny is this movie it will leave you convinced that if the gangster comedy is n't killed off by actor-driven improv riffs like this , maybe it ought to be . Better dead than more like Made . Vaughn and Favreau possess great comic chemistry and their dynamic makes this movie well worth watching . A joyless experience with an often irritating , bland , and pointless movie . Although their mindless banter is cute at first , listening to them becomes as tiresome as being stuck at a cocktail party between battling spouses . If there is a more annoying performance than Vaughn 's in a movie this year , it can only mean the real Jerry Lewis has made a comeback . Vaughn hits the bullseye as a strident , volatile jerk who ca n't keep his mouth shut . You never really like him , but you ca n't wait to see what he 'll do next -- his missteps and offenses are so unbelievable you wince , but you ca n't look away . The comic invention at work here -- Vaughn 's and Favreau 's -- make Made into a rough gem . It 's Swingers meets The Sopranos as Favreau makes his directorial debut also in this fun gangland film . The plot seems to be nothing more than a translucent bridge to the next scene where Vaughn can run his mouth and Favreau can play off him as the longsuffering friend Vaughn and Favreau almost always give us something to watch . 	Not as good as Swingers , but it 's still witty and goofy enough for some laughs .
halloween resurrection Am I missing something ? I admit , I have n't watched all of the previous movies , but based on what I 've seen I ca n't imagine why anyone else would . The movie is like a year late for tapping into our reality tv obsession , and even tardier for exploiting the novelty of the `` webcast . '' Every sequel you skip will be two hours gained . Consider this review life-affirming . Rubber heads and lines are the order of the night . The latest episode of the Halloween franchise is a bad film . It is not , however , so bad that the faithful should be discouraged from attending . By the miserable standards to which the slasher genre has sunk , ... actually pretty good . Of course , by more objective measurements it 's still quite bad . A pretty funny comedy starring the one , the only , the incomparable ... Busta Rhymes . Halloween : Resurrection is surprisingly effective , especially the opening sequence featuring the showdown between Laurie and Michael . This latest installment of the horror film franchise that is apparently as invulnerable as its trademark villain has arrived for an incongruous summer playoff , demonstrating yet again that the era of the intelligent , well-made B movie is long gone . There 's no evidence of craftsmanship or energy . Everything , from the plot to the execution , is plodding and obligatory . 	The only thing this tired slasher flick may resurrect is nostalgia for when the genre was still fresh and scary .
annie hall Personal as the story he is telling may be , what separates this film from Allen 's own past work and most other recent comedy is its general believability . Allen 's imaginative , often avant-garde approach to the material goes a long way towards compensating for a decidedly uneven atmosphere ... A near perfect romantic-comedy While its consonance comes largely from Gordon Willis 's photography and Allen 's spacious sense of New York , pathos comes at best from Keaton 's evaporative performance and a slightly sentimental conception . Just when you feel like you want to look away , it brings you back with a devastating one-liner . Seminal , hilarious look at contemporary relationships . Not only is it his best film , it comes as close to perfection as any comedy created in the twentieth century . This is Woody Allen 's signature film , arguably his best and certainly his most popular . It 's a slight story but what makes this film significant in Allen 's long career is that it 's really the first time he wrote adult characters . Annie Hall expanded Woody Allen 's canvas to incorporate real wisdom alongside the punchlines . 	Filled with poignant performances and devastating humor , Annie Hall represents a quantum leap for Woody Allen and remains an American classic .
wolverine It 's fun and , for a film possessed of its scale , ambition and extravagantly loopy plotlines , it 's refreshingly unpretentious . It 's hard to see how anyone other than hardcore fans will find much to entertain them . It 's so-so stuff . There 's little of the seen-it-all , wise-guy acerbity that made his character in the X-Men trilogy stand apart from his fellow mutants . Here , he just glowers . Jackman 's committed performance keeps the movie on track , though Huston and Schreiber are strictly on autopilot . We 're 9 years past the first `` X-Men '' movie and computer-driven effects have only improved , so how is it possible that Wolverine 's metallic claws looked worse now ? Though well-choreographed , the action sequences simply do n't look as good as one would expect from a tent-pole summer release . Jackman invests his fierce character with a cheeky attitude , clear-eyed intelligence and inherent decency , compelling viewers to care about his metamorphosis . The amount of muscle on display is the film 's most remarkable aspect , unless you count how unforgivably dull it is . What we get is an efficient but thinly plotted comic book violence packed story . 	Though Hugh Jackman gives his all , he ca n't help X-Men Origins : Wolverine overcome a cliche-ridden script and familiar narrative .
rosemarys baby Roman Polanski 's horror classic is literally pregnant with paranoia ... . Arguably the finest American horror movie of the 1960s . Overrated and really rather dull movie from Polanski , who rarely misfires . An intelligent and faithful adaptation of Ira Levin 's Satanists thriller . 'Rosemary 's Baby ' presents the dark and the light and allows for choice : does she or does n't she ? If Ira Levin 's story shrewdly taps into every pregnant woman 's fears about the stranger growing inside her , Mia Farrow gives those fears an achingly real and human force . Rosemary 's Baby ( 1968 ) is Polish director Roman Polanski 's first American film and his second , scary horror film - following his first disturbing film Flawlessly constructed `` slow-burn '' horror tale Even readers of the book who know how Baby comes out are in for a pleasant surprise : the very real acting ability of Mia Farrow . Polanski 's most startling accomplishment is ultimately twisting something as natural as maternal instinct into something horrifying , if not downright monstrous . Having escaped the horrors of the Nazi Holocaust in Poland by the skin of his teeth , Mr. Polanski was well equipped psychologically to re-imagine what was , before Rosemary 's Baby , a B-picture genre into an A-picture genre . 	A frightening tale of Satanism and pregnancy that is even more disturbing than it sounds thanks to convincing and committed performances by Mia Farrow and Ruth Gordon .
bad taste An Ok start for a good director Absolutely insane , irretrievably disgusting , and joyously covered in gore . It ai n't `` Dead Alive , '' but it 's a whole lot of wet , drippy fun . Goofball gore flick that deservedly put Peter Jackson on the map ! The Lord of the Rings director Peter Jackson 's debut is rather aptly named . Its crudity has more to do with Sam Raimi than Tolkein , but there 's a wonderfully sophomoric enthusiasm that keeps it interesting . A climatic rebirth-by-chainsaw scene almost makes it all worthwhile , though you may have had to visit the bathroom once or twice in the wait . Fun , though the title could n't be more apt . Jackson does it all in this movie : writes , directs , stars , produces , and designs the makeup . It warms the heart to know that the creator of this insanity went on to win the Oscar . I miss Peter Jackson in his ultra low-budget horror mode . He always looked like he was having fun . Not half as good as Dead Alive , but still a hoot . Paucity of budget , however , can not hide boundless creativity , true filmmaking style or gobs and gobs of in-your-face homemade gore and grue . 	Peter Jackson 's early low-budget shocker boasts a disgusting premise - aliens harvesting humans for fast food - that gives the budding auteur plenty of room for gross-out visuals and absurd cleverness .
michael jackson this is it It 's got a story , it 's got music , it even has a hero , but what it lacks is soul . I can not image a visual record of any kind doing a better job of showing us what might have been , which makes it both a cause for celebration and its own unique tragedy Consistently an entertaining and fascinating film that lifts the veil of secrecy to help us get closer to Jackson in ways that may have never been possible if he was still with us . What `` This is It '' accomplishes is key to not only preserving Jackson 's memory , but also to galvanizing his myth . Onstage , he still moonwalks , but there are new moves to be had here and a voice that is still strong . Would those concerts have returned him to his magical pedestal ? We 'll never know the answer , of course . But watching this movie , at least we get a feel of it . It is interesting to see Jackson in a world created to his specifications after years of only seeing him in the `` real '' world he never quite fit into . As a posthumous document , This Is It offers a veiled , vaseline-lens look behind the curtain . As a cultural event , it 's more than a little creepy and depressing . Sometimes he loses his voice and sometimes he even loses his temper . The film never shows us whether or not Michael Jackson had lost his mind . But it does show us that he never lost his talent . Concert film documents King of Pop 's final labor of love . Not that it ever gets beneath the surface - but that surface was so multi-faceted and exciting , at least in this context , that it makes this film impossible to ignore . 	While it may not be the definitive concert film ( or the insightful backstage look ) some will hope for , Michael Jackson 's This Is It packs more than enough entertainment value to live up to its ambitious title .
slumdog millionaire Slumdog Millionaire is skillful entertainment , with the simple message that the most intense life experiences yield the greatest education . Worth seeing . Director Danny Boyle has crafted one of the best and most surprising films of the year . Slumdog Millionaire is a dour film to watch but somehow manages to maintain a heart . I have tried , but I can not imagine the person who would not have a fantastic time at Slumdog Millionaire . `` Slumdog Millionaire '' is an absolute delight throughout and I can not imagine the possibility of a viewer sitting through it without completely succumbing to its massive charms . Boyle 's most ambitious film to date is also his greatest . Simply put , Slumdog Millionaire in one of the best -- if not the best -- films of 2008 , as teeming with life as the slums it depicts . There has n't been a social drama this decadently over-hyped since City of God . Boyle plays the same game of pandering to liberal sensibilities while entertaining safe , middle-class distance . The movie runs a solid two hours , but Boyle expertly handles the pacing . If Charles Dickens set Oliver Twist in 21st-century Mumbai , reimagining the sweeping story of love and friendship , poverty and tragedy through a Bollywood lens , the result would be a lot like Slumdog Millionaire . A solidly entertaining and energizing film . 	Visually dazzling and emotionally resonant , Slumdog Millionaire is a film that 's both entertaining and powerful .
underworld Achieves only loudness , aggressive confusion and one of the silliest head-splittings in film history . There 's not quite enough muscle to really sink your teeth into , but fans of the Blade-type vampire movies should be pleased . Appears to be nothing more than what it probably is : the middle section of a series of prequels and sequels . The story quickly bogs down into a super bloody , super loud mess that even the elegant Beckinsale ca n't save . Revels in more flash than fantasy . There 's awful lot of story fat here between the form-fitting plastic jumpsuits . The plot unfolds with the grace of a long fall downstairs . Even though its surface is derivative , Underworld 's version of vampires and werewolves is original Nothing about Underworld is original A cross between Buffy the Vampire Slayer , Blade and The Matrix , directed by Ed Wood . This is n't one to rush out to on opening night , but it 'd make for a decent Saturday matinee . Who would 've thought that vampires and werewolves could hold our interest like this ever again , anyway ? 	Though stylish to look at , Underworld is tedious and derivative .
zombieland If there 's one moment that perfectly encapsulates the vibe of the horror-comedy Zombieland , it 's probably this : Woody Harrelson in a cowboy hat , whooping and hollering , picking off zombies with a gun ... from a moving roller coaster . Zombieland is downright delightful . Yes , it 's charming , well shot and funny , but there are no real scares to be found . Zombieland is nowhere near the classic it has been labelled , and is more a film that will be encrusted in this time and place . Give it a few years , and it will seem as relevant as the latest game console . To be honest , I had to drag myself to Zombieland . And , horrors upon hilarity , I laughed throughout it . Chalk it up to the comedy 's rapid pacing , graphics , makeup , actors , and clever writing . Who would have guessed such a funny movie as Zombieland could be made around zombies ? No thanks to the zombies . Over-laid with a strain of ironic humour that 's deliciously ridiculous . It 's Zombieland 's delightfully offbeat characters that give the movie its staying power . Zombieland is Shaun of the Dead 's crazy , funny redneck cousin . ... one of the funniest movies of the year , but one of the best all-around zombie movies in the last decade . 	Wickedly funny and featuring plenty of gore , Zombieland is proof that the zombie subgenre is far from dead .
toy story 3 If in singing the film 's praises one can do no more than follow a familiar hymn sheet , so be it . Like their plastic space ranger , Pixar is a company prepared to reach infinity and beyond , and there 's little sense arguing with such lofty ambition . Such a deep wrap-up that it makes the previous two movies feel like episodes , while this movie feels like the summation . I found myself crying a bit for these animated inanimate objects . It 's sweet , innocent , intelligent , poignant -- and , most importantly , as wonderfully playful as movies can be . [ VIDEO ESSAY ] An obvious split between the accomplished progression of the first two movies and the inferior last installment is the departure of the enormously talented writer Peter Docter from the franchise . Toy Story 3 has all the sass , action , and derring do of the Indiana Jones movies , the charm , admiration , and fun of its predecessors and cousins at Pixar , and enough laughter and imagination to fuel generations to come , Forget Butch and Sundance , Bogart and Bacall or Hepburn and Tracy . There is no more engaging double act in the movies than Woody and Buzz and the pair make a triumphant , long-awaited comeback in Toy Story 3 . A fitting capstone to a landmark series of animated films . Toy Story 3 is a remarkable film and a fitting conclusion to one of the most consistently enjoyable trilogies ever made . The best movie of the year so far . 	Deftly blending comedy , adventure , and honest emotion , Toy Story 3 is a rare second sequel that really works .
elf A resounding success in the laugh department , but it tries to warm hearts as well , and eventually collapses under the weight of its own sugarplum schmaltz . A bright spot in the budding holiday movie season . Will Ferrell has the ability to turn those wide eyes and that big body into a potent comic weapon , so Elf gets a good number of laughs from his complete , innocent abandonment to his role as a lummox-size elf . Like all great holiday movies , Elf is a blend of humor and sweetness . Relentlessly silly holiday tale about a human raised by elves who travels to New York to find his long-lost father . The result is a good-natured and good-hearted film that is actually better than the dopey trailers might lead you to otherwise believe . If you 're one of those fussy filmgoers who demands that a movie engage somewhat higher body parts -- the heart , say , and the brain -- you 'll find only intermittent comfort and joy in this high-concept , low-wattage film . [ An ] amusing , sweet-natured ode to retro-Christmas warmth and cheer ... Most will relate to its Christmas spirit , and there 's unlikely to be a dry eye in the house during the emotional climax . The third act 's a little clumsy , but Elf brings the Christmas cheer and loads of laughs . 	A movie full of Yuletide cheer , Elf is a spirited , good-natured family comedy , and it benefits greatly from Will Ferrell 's funny and charming performance as one of Santa 's biggest helpers .
10000 bc CGI effects are letter perfect believable . The opening mastodon hunt/stampede is as good as effects seen in the recent 'King Kong , ' greatly enhancing the film . This is actually a movie you forget while watching it . Would make a good drinking game ; silly fun but not `` good . '' A critic sitting near me snorted in derision at my `` the costumes kicked ass , '' but I wo n't back down . They were really cool . 10,000 B.C . is a load of crap dressed up with pretty background vistas . The film is terminally lifeless , something that a so-called 'event ' picture should never be . It 's all just F/X opportunities , exposing Hollywood 's -- and our own -- non-relationship to history . Hey , CG mammoths ! And lots of 'em ! And some raptor/dodo thingies that move exactly like Spielberg 's dinosaurs . Still , looks cool enough . Could 've used some more of the saber-toothed tiger , though . Visually , historically and creatively , this film dishonors the year 10,000 B.C . A disaster that ca n't even get the computer generated images right . Should have been a lot more fun . ... lovesick prehistoric man traverses the globe to rescue the woman he loves . 	With attention strictly paid to style instead of substance , or historical accuracy , 10,000 B.C . is a visually impressive but narratively flimsy epic .
wild parrots of telegraph hill An absolute delight and nothing like the wimpy nature film its title suggests . It 's a soaring -- figuratively and literally -- documentary with a surprising emotional power . In the spirit of all good documentaries , Wild Parrots transcends its ostensive subject . Irving , a longtime filmmaker and lifelong birdwatcher , captures her subjects with striking intimacy . She shapes a well-told story , capped by a few dramatic turns of event . Honestly earns its sentimentality , with a Zapruderish photographic reveal in the final act that 's seriously the most affecting thing I 've seen all year . Filmmaker Judy Irving makes a lovely little mountain out of a molehill in this poignant documentary emphasizing the confluence of man and animal . Irving 's insightful , glorious little documentary reveals larger personal truths for her subject while exploring a hidden society of unwanted parrots . ... objections recede in the face of the prime fact of this movie : It makes us feel better about being human . The birdman off Alcatraz , Bittner should make you think twice about calling anyone a bird-brain again . The film is that rare documentary that has romance , comedy and a surprise ending that makes you feel as if you could fly out of the theater like a cherry headed conure . Well-considered , beautifully made , and often gripping in its narrative , the film epitomizes the best the documentary format can offer . 	Interesting and appealing as both a study of man and nature .
cronos The film 's shocking grotesqueness is not just for show . It is one element in a multi-layered cultural commentary . Cronos , at $ 2 million , was one of Mexico 's most expensive motion pictures ever , the cost reflected not so much by epic scope and visuals as in polished production values and careful design . A compelling , complex and wonderfully atmospheric film from Mexican director Guillermo del Toro that is as much about religion and the nature of cinema as it is a horror story . A very stylish and sophisticated Mexican variation on some age-old themes . Guillermo del Toro 's feature debut is an arch twist on the vampire tale . A most startling genre piece : tender , imaginative and wholly its own . New dimensions on an old tale . Del Toro conjures up a delightfully potent atmosphere and motion for it , born no doubt of a real appreciation for such things . It 's genuinely disquieting . Which is all you really need . Like most of Del Toro 's films , it tends to be way overrated by desperate cultists . 	Guillermo del Toro 's unique feature debut is not only gory and stylish , but also charming and intelligent .
distant A sublime treat for anyone with a taste for subtly rendered , almost purely cinematic expression . Stuffed with unspoken thoughts and unspeakable feelings Actually lives up to its title ; it 's a muted , uninvolving film . Ultimately , it becomes a movie about the feeling of being alive , the sensation of existence . It 's a movie , in a way , about everything . There are mysteries to be explored in [ Ceylan 's ] compositions : Why are so many people so far from the camera ? Why is that floor creaking ? Where did that bright red basket , suddenly lowered onto a dingy street , come from ? Films that insist on long periods of nothingness need to earn those periods . The tale has a deceptive , emotional complexity that builds to a surprisingly heartrending impact . Distant is a thematically rich Turkish film about urban loneliness , the shame of unemployment and the difficulty of practicing hospitality . Deeply compassionate and frequently amusing , qualifying as a minor miracle of humanely observant filmmaking . A Chekhovian tale of major artistic power . 	Hauntingly beautiful , Distant communicates volumes with its almost pervasive silence .
terminator 3 rise of the machines Exciting to watch but it 's far too pale a copy of the prior installment to grip the imagination . In the action department , James Cameron is a God . So save for a few choice fanatics , Jonathan Mostow could then be Jesus . It 's a sick kick to watch der Arnold battle a Swiss Army knife shaped like a Maxim cover girl . What is missing from Terminator 3 is the relentless inventiveness Cameron brought to the first two Terminator films . The sequel expands on the nature of fate that the previous pictures explored so well , culminating in a rather bold third act where saving the day takes on a more unconventional meaning . I want to love this movie and there 's a lot going for it . But there 's just no heart . You do n't care about any of the characters , even the ones you already knew . Long-awaited sequel delivers the franchise 's trademark action and humor , but with a dark twist . The pleasures of this text reside almost completely in the sensation that we 're watching an extremely well-funded kid playing with toy cars and action figures in a toy city . T3 is easily the funniest of the three films , no small achievement when you have Ah-nold playing a cyborg who cracks wise like Joe Clark at a celebrity roast . ... in a summer of comic book super-operas dense with psychological torment and sprawling well over two hours , the unpretentious efficiency of Terminator 3 : Rise of the Machines is refreshing . 	Although T3 never reaches the heights of the second movie , it is a welcome addition to the Terminator franchise .
bourne identity Okay , sure , Affleck 's Jack Ryan saves the world from nuclear war while Damon 's Jason Bourne only saves his own *** , but still : He 's onscreen with things blowing up , and Affleck does n't get to stab a guy in the arm . So there . A well-executed spy-thriller . The Bourne Identity delivers everything you ask for in a thriller - nail-biting suspense , awe-inspiring stunts and a resolution as satisfying as the film itself . State of the art Hollywood genre filmmaking : impersonal , efficient and exciting . Twists and turns keep the story increasingly complex and gripping , even if director Liman does n't really pump up the adrenaline . This is a long sweet breath of fresh air in the action genre ... As if trying to grab a lump of Play-Doh , the harder that Liman tries to squeeze his story , the more details slip out between his fingers . Typical light summer fare . The movie is about muscular speed and skill , and that 's all it 's about . Like its hero , it 's blank by design . Aside from turning me away from the CIA , this was a good flick . 	Expertly blending genre formula with bursts of unexpected wit , The Bourne Identity is an action thriller that delivers -- and then some .
step up Mesmo que falhe como historinha de amor , o longa consegue levar o espectador a sair da sala com a sensao de que ao menos em seu aspecto musical o projeto no decepcionou . The TV spots claim that it `` captures the voice of a generation , '' and if that 's the case , then the voice of the youth has n't changed at all in the five years Save the Last Dance lit up the box office . Clichd dance movie with some fun moves . Tatum and Dewan have none of the chemistry of Astaire and Rogers , but with help from a good supporting cast and talented choreography , the movie rises slightly above the usual cookie-cutter dance-movie fare . ... this is lowest-common-denominator stuff . ... a miscast Rachel Griffiths looks uncomfortable in her role as Principal Gordon and spends her few scenes looking like she 's wishing she was somewhere else . While Tatum has rough charm , Dewan is more dancer than actress . Debut director Anne Fletcher fails to put a new spin on umpteen romantic hoofers . Even if the picture breaks no new ground , the verve of the actors and their fancy footwork is half the battle . ... the dance numbers are overwhelmed by a trite and predictable script that trudges through familiar themes of redemption and acceptance while taking itself far too seriously . 	This trite teen romance has too little plot and not enough dancing .
wedding crashers Wedding Crashers is a brash , frequently hilarious film that may be overly long but satisfies our desires for a lot of comedy and a little bit of romance . A bawdy summer comedy for adults and mature teens , this movie features rapid-fire dialogue and sincere affection between best-friend leads and strong chemistry between the actors who portray them . Wilson and Vaughn are generous comedians ; they love more than anything injecting disarming affection into their comedy . Wedding crashes hard.Wilson and Vaughn barely save romantic comedy . Why do so many contemporary comedies feel obliged to make room for heartwarming life lessons ? Is n't it enough just to make people laugh ? ... An amusing , if a bit crude , summertime diversion . Hopelessly raunchy , helplessly romantic , and wickedly , wickedly funny . Far and away the funniest film I 've seen all year . Dobkin has made a raunchy comedy that delivers enough laughs to merit its randy ambitions . But now that it works , it 's a shame that he did n't aim just a little bit higher . There are some terrifically funny scenes , but nearly everything is predictable , and , at two hours , it slightly overstays its welcome . 	Wedding Crashers is both raunchy and sweet , and features top-notch comic performances from Vince Vaughn and Owen Wilson .
chronicles of narnia lion witch wardrobe It is spendthrift in budget yet cautious in style , steadfast in holding to Lewis 's imagination yet timorous about using any of its own . ... an overlong , bloated , and surprisingly stale venture into yet another wondrous world that is better left to the written page and our overactive imaginations . Viewers who enjoyed the LOTR threepeat should find similar compensations in this less ambitious undertaking . Narnia is a special film that trumps the Potter films in nearly every important aspect . Adamson seems more comfortable with animated characters than real ones . The Chronicles of Narnia is not a bad fantasy film . It 's just not a great one . The good news is Director Andrew Adamson and gang have done an impressive job of adapting Lewis ' admittedly simple and somewhat thin tale into a big scale motion picture , delivering impressive production values and few solid action sequences . Time wondering how the lion and witch got stuck in the wardrobe in the first place : 132 minutes . The odds are quite good that you 'd exit the movie theatre pretty much disappointed . Grown-up children who remember our own travels in Narnia will find that many of the details resonate beautifully . 	With first-rate special effects and compelling storytelling , this adaptation stays faithful to its source material and will please moviegoers of all ages .
the incredible hulk The Hulk looks like a dark , shiny , muscular pickle . A potent mix of testosterone and adrenalin and action fans of all ages should be happy to hand over their green . Comic book performances trample Norton 's attempt at 3D , e.g. , Tim Blake Nelson 's over-the-top scientist , acting as if he 's performing children 's theater to a packed matinee of pre-schoolers . A wholly mediocre comic movie ... to belabor the pun that everyone else has already belabored , there 's nothing about it that 's even a little bit incredible . Can anybody smell the franchise that Marvel is cooking ? While the CGI battles between The Hulk and Abomination are expectedly clunky , there are enough fun references and strongly crafted scenes to mark The Incredible Hulk as a highly enjoyable , if not quite exceptional , comic book adaptation . `` The Incredible Hulk '' emphasizes action and special effects . ... But it is what fans expect and hoped for and it will not disappoint . The Hulk looks pretty damn good and the final fight will make diehard fans and new fans satisfied . More action , less poncing , than that last Hulk movie ensures a stronger response . A more satisfactory adaptation of the spirit of Stan Lee 's Marvel character . 	The Incredible Hulk provides the action and excitement to please comic book fans and re-ignite this fledgling franchise .
flightplan cleverly combines old-school suspense and modern-day paranoia into a tense , compact thriller that 's scarier than a long flight on a bankrupt airline . The makers of Flightplan have trimmed all the meat off The Lady Vanishes as if it were fat and served us the bone . ... an exercise in pure entertainment . Flightplan - - a heart-stopping thriller . ... it 's far from First Class . ( Jody Foster ) storms through the plane with the determination of General Macarthur and a battle cry of , 'Where 's my daughter ? Where 's my daughter ? Where 's my daughter ? ' A big disappointment . When the movie was over , I stepped out into the daylight and felt a weird sensation . It was a form of relief . The suspense had gotten to me more deeply than I expected . Every time the film starts to ascend into dramatic territory , it hits an air pocket and loses momentum plunges almost immediately into the suspense and maintains it throughout , highlighted by terrific performances by Foster , Sarsgaard , and Bean . 	The actors are all on key here , but as the movie progress , tension deflates as the far-fetched plot kicks in .
seventh seal This is an uncompromising film , regarding good and evil with the same simplicity and faith as its hero . still spiritually resonates today It is endlessly imitated and spoofed ; it is also an august pinnacle of high-risk , high-art filmmaking , and one with a reputation for being far more forbidding and humourless than it actually is . so densely packed with both visual and verbal images that it is a cinematic equivalent of poetry Not a friendly film , but in the consciousness of suffering , the search for meaning and the acceptance of death , all ( or nearly all ) of Bergman is in it . Ingmar Bergman 's black and white masterpiece The Seventh Seal has matured like a great wine over 50 years . Almost hypnotic in its power , it 's a film that washes away all the parodying it has received over the years , emerging as fresh and startling today as it did nearly 50 years ago . Though it dramatically never comes to life , it does give one a feel of the medieval times ' obscene nature , brutality and superstitions . It survives today only as an unusually pure example of a typical 50s art-film strategy : the attempt to make the most modern and most popular of art forms acceptable to the intelligentsia by forcing it into an arcane , antique mold . Fear , peril and hoplessness soak every frame . 	Narratively bold and visually striking , The Seventh Seal brought Ingmar Bergman to the world stage -- and remains every bit as compelling today .
monty python and the holy grail If you like this film , the sad truth is that it 's yet another visual upgrade , and it does contain what Gilliam called `` the only reason for buying the Blu-ray '' -those lost animations . Crammed with acres of quotable dialogue , the film plows along from one inspired bit to the next . There 's a semblance of a plot , but this is really just an excuse for the boys to engage in their unique brand of humor , which includes mimicry , dress-up , dry wit , slapstick and glorious non sequitors . A superb work of insanely silly escapism . A wonderful charm filters through these almost collegiate efforts , as if these underfunded Brits , in doing their best , did it better . Has been so quoted and requoted that the scenes and words feel tattooed onto the psychic membrane . Monty Python and the Holy Grail will amuse and amaze . Ah , bless the Pythons , back after 26 years to get medieval all over again on the legend of King Arthur and his knights of the round table . Represents one of the best and brightest comedies ever to shine from the silver screen . It 's still one of the funniest , silliest and all-out strangest films you 'll ever see . Now go away , or I shall taunt you a second time . 	A cult classic as gut-bustingly hilarious as it is blithely ridiculous , Monty Python and the Holy Grail has lost none of its exceedingly silly charm .
big bad love The only cosmic question that arises from watching this film is , why should we care about any of these people ? The very definition of what critics have come to term an `` ambitious failure . '' Self-indulgent and pretentious , a narcissistic portrait of the artist as tormented genius that flails about for two hours in a failed effort to appear deep . Like Leon , it 's frustrating and still oddly likable . Constantly touching , surprisingly funny , semi-surrealist exploration of the creative act . Howard conjures the past via surrealist flourishes so overwrought you 'd swear he just stepped out of a Buuel retrospective . While Howard 's appreciation of Brown and his writing is clearly well-meaning and sincere , the movie would be impossible to sit through were it not for the supporting cast . There are labors of love and there are labors of labor , exhaustively worked-through movies in which you feel as if you are watching a director give birth to every idea that has been gestating in the brain since he was given his first 8-mm camera . A respectable mix of piercing human frailty , the tricks your mind plays on you , and the unexpected blows to the ego that force separation and reconciliation . This ambitious drama about a Vietnam vet trying to create fiction out of his troubled life and former marriage ( to Debra Winger ) is messy , rambling , and overlong . 	A boozy depiction of a struggling writer , Big Bad Love is too messy and self-indulgent .
my week with marilyn Appealing Monroe drama has strong language , some sexuality . I 'm delighted to recommend it , as long as you know what you 're in for : `` The King 's Speech '' has the subtlety of Chekhov in comparison . Is there anything Michelle Williams can not do ? The subject matter is interesting but I was disappointed with its delivery . The screenplay is repetitious . Williams does n't mime Monroe , she embodies Monroe : all of her frailties , her naiveties , her veiled strengths , and her flirtations . She is never less than breathlessly breathtaking . Michelle Williams is radiant as Marilyn Monroe . Nobody mentions Norma Jean Baker , yet that 's who Williams is actually playing , the small-town girl toting a lot of baggage to the big time ... It 's a duality we already know is sad ; this movie makes sadness observable . Maybe it 's fitting that Williams ' performance transcends the predictable film My Week With Marilyn becomes : Hers is a Marilyn seen by all , but always fading away . Engaging , enjoyable and surprisingly moving drama with a decent script and a pair of terrific , potentially Oscar-worthy performances from Michelle Williams and Kenneth Branagh . Williams ' impersonation is up to scratch , and adoring her is n't too hard . She captures the lilting voice and eagerness to please , and her heart-shaped face makes for a likeness that 's sometimes uncanny . 	Michelle Williams shines in My Week with Marilyn , capturing the magnetism and vulnerability of Marilyn Monroe .
ferris buellers day off The pinnacle of Director John Hughes career . A comedy gem ! Ferris is an admittedly entertaining , at times delightful fellow . How unfortunate that no one got to wring the little bastard 's neck . Writer-director John Hughes ' snappy and thought-provoking film about adolescence . Ferris Bueller`s Day Off goes through the motions of enjoyable experiences without communicating much joy . Drenched in Eighties-style teen spirit . A minor summertime diversion that could have been much more . It 's an airhead teen film that nevertheless caught the public 's fancy and still remains a popular cult favorite . It 's a fun film that has a message ( like all of Hughes ' films ) and also serves as a promotional tour guide of Chicago . Broderick 's smooth , ever-confident patter gives Ferris Bueller 's Day Off just the right air of breezy insouciance . Everyone who grew up in the 80s wanted to BE Broderick in this film . 	Matthew Broderick charms in Ferris Bueller 's Day Off , a light and irrepressibly fun movie about being young and having fun .
invictus Solid , unsurprising , formalist filmmaking of the kind we 've come to expect from Clint Eastwood . Directed flawlessly by Clint Eastwood , `` Invictus '' is an uplifting story that will have you cheering in your seat . As Mandela , Morgan Freeman is suitably statesman-like and makes light of a difficult accent to give a convincing performance . Less convincing but still serviceable is Matt Damon . Invictus remains inspiring and educational , especially during this present time in America in which we are supposedly muddling our way into a post-racial society . Feels like we 're watching Mr. Rogers run a country . Freeman 's Mandela smiles politely and wants everyone to be his neighbor . While that may be real , Eastwood never makes it seem interesting A monolithic sporting saga that seems content to pose on the podium , lulled by the belief that its subject matter provides inspiration enough . [ T ] he epitome of Hollywood filmmaking in ways both good and bad : uplifting , overlong , ambitious in scope but simple in moral vision , well-crafted but inured to irony . An undeniably stirring , if predictable , account of how Nelson Mandela turned the Springbok team into a unifying force for his country . Non-rugby fans may find their patience tested , but Freeman 's magisterial performance carries it . Inspiring tale about Mandela , rugby , and national pride . Invictus does leave you feeling oddly satisfied , but it 's a very fleeting satisfaction , perhaps because its rainbow nation conclusion immediately starts to ring hollow once the euphoria of the triumphant sports movie ending subsides . 	Delivered with typically stately precision from director Clint Eastwood , Invictus may not be rousing enough for some viewers , but Matt Damon and Morgan Freeman inhabit their real-life characters with admirable conviction .
mrs brown Judi Dench 's glacial , reserved demeanour contrasts beautifully with Billy Connolly 's natural , rebellious exuberance , and their resultant spark of chemistry is undeniable . Centering on a lesser-known chapter in the reign of Queen Victoria , this richly detailed drama about her intimate relationship with her servant that scandalized the country is extremely well-acted ; Judi Dench deserves an Oscar nomination The political nuances of Mrs. Brown may be obscure to most Americans , but you need no expertise in British history to appreciate Ms. Dench 's honesty or Mr. Connolly 's ferocity , or Anthony Sher 's sly turn as the sharp-witted Disraeli . Connolly is a revelation . He is one of these rare beasts who have the ability to bring with him his strong presence and renown , but skillfully in the mix , manages to detach himself from his persona and mould himself into the character . Helping things greatly is the film 's talented cast , which not only includes stunning performances from the leads , but a scene-stealing turn by Sher as well . Explores the platonic friendship between the Queen of the British empire and a Scottish servant . Even as the film teases us with the underlying ''sensuality '' of the relationship , it fails to portray it as a convincing human bond . Mrs. Brown is stately yet depressed , like Victoria . Even as the historical and emotional incongruities threaten to derail the film , the acerbic and witty prose gives Mrs. Brown a humorous dimension that , at times , makes it feel like an English response to Ridicule . terrific performances make it a must-see Despite a few passing similarities to `` The Madness of King George '' and `` Carrington , '' `` Mrs. Brown '' succeeds bravely on its own terms , owing much to freshman scribe Jeremy Brock 's outstanding blending of fact and speculation . 	Thanks to some top notch acting , the chemistry between its stars , and a witty , thoughtful script , Mrs. Brown delivers a nuanced and entertaining , if not entirely factual , account of a seldom explored historical relationship .
war of the worlds I liked it a lot , aside from the ending , which made me want to burn down the theater . The real hero of this film is Steven Spielberg . It 's not the best Spielberg film out there , but there are pieces of it that are truly monumental . No es la gran pelcula de la dcada , pero s es un claro ejemplo de entretenimiento del ms alto nivel que te mantendr , literalmente , en el filo de la butaca . Spielberg flips the E.T . script with this sci-fi flick which reverts to the pulp fiction notion of aliens as the enemies of earthlings . Never Before Has Spielberg so Tragically Shot Himself in the Foot with his Ending and Never before have I been so Willing to Forgive . [ Spielberg is ] in absolute visual , physical command of this material , presenting the complete chaos and destruction with frightening clarity . There 's plenty of blood , most of the cast of thousands die , and some of the images are just plain disturbing ... I loved it . Spielberg , whose previous alien visitation movies ( E.T . The Extra-Terrestrial and Close Encounters of the Third Kind ) are considerably more benign than this film . But he does this more mature , nightmarish material nearly as well . A thrilling but frivolous ride . Fantastic and banal , terrifying and occasionally dull , pure Spielberg and yet at times anonymous , War of the Worlds delivers multiple viewing experiences during its two-hour running time . 	Steven Spielberg 's adaptation of War of the Worlds delivers on the thrill and paranoia of H.G . Wells ' classic novel while impressively updating the action and effects for modern audiences .
lot like love I do n't know how comfortable I am proclaiming this , but 2005 could be the year known for the rehabilitation of Ashton Kutcher . An inane flick about two immature lovers . A Lot Like Love sags and droops into the shape of a movie that 's too much like every other conventional romantic comedy that loses its cool . With less fluff and more funk than is usual for the genre , Kutcher and Peet make surprisingly appealing foils for each other . A Lot Like Love is one of those romantic comedies that features characters so annoying that one hopes they break up and save the gene pool irreparable damage . Cole treats his lovers -- and his audience -- like adults , and that makes this modern romantic comedy an affair to remember . It 's strikingly well shot and acted , without resorting to sitcom silliness ... then just when it should end on a sigh , it spirals into the same old stupidity . Oddly interesting , but not enough to pull the film through the last half hour as it looses steam and energy as it dwindles to its inevitable conclusion . ... the script gives the actors virtually nothing to do and nothing to say in this subpar genre entry . Why do n't they just settle down with each other and save us all 107 minutes ? 	A tiresome rom-com .
1195905-hounddog Hounddog boasts a distinctive wood-and-emerald look and several crackerjack performances . This overripe tale of innocence lost has become one of notoriety found . The only lesson is that if you 're a child of the south , you better get yourself adopted by Yankees . Hounddog is an indigestible gumbo of Southern Gothic ingredients seasoned with snake oil , biblical hash and thoroughly unpalatable spice . A tasteful cautionary fable and fairy tale for adults . Fanning projects a strange mix of innocence and awareness . The triumph of her performance is her ability to turn it on and off in the same scene , sometimes even in the same shot . The much-hyped rape scene is n't even remotely the worst offense of this tedious and overrated film . The clichs are thick as the kudzu in 1956 Alabama . Ms. Fanning 's performance alone makes Hounddog worth seeing in this age of child Duses . Fanning is exceptional , anchoring the film with the confidence of an actress thrice her age . 	Despite a noble effort from Dakota Fanning , Hounddog is overwrought , cliche-ridden and downright exploitative .
sherlock holmes a game of shadows The broader strokes of Moriarty 's plan become evident a little too easily , dropping like a grand piano rather than a penny . But the finer machinations make the story a delight . A fairly good action movie but one that wastes the talents of Noomi Rapace ... a singularly joyless endeavor , a murky mishmash of skullduggery , ho-hum CG and formulaic cliff-hanger escapes that would have been old hat around the time of 'The Great Train Robbery . ' It 's all bigger and louder and so much less . You do n't need a deerstalker and a magnifying glass to track the subtext of this fatiguing Arthur Conan Do n't Ask-Do n't Tell 'bromance . ' As it stands , with its engrossing-yet-obscured-by-over-the-top-CGI plot , Sherlock Holmes : A Game of Shadows is little more than elementary , my dear moviegoer . There 's no fun quite as shallow as the fun of watching actors goof with one another , which is pretty much the single card that A Game of Shadows has to play . The thing that was so prevalent in the first film -- that I found missing here -- was simply unadultered fun . If only they 'd spent the cash on a bad guy with stature , instead of taking that phrase , `` the banality of evil , '' so literally . Playing this Game might have been even more fun . Fantastical , furious and really funny -- even better than the 2009 film which revived the Holmes franchise . 	Sherlock Holmes : A Game of Shadows is a good yarn thanks to its well-matched leading men but overall stumbles duplicating the well-oiled thrills of the original .
superman man of steel A gritty , realistic story shot by a director whose instincts constantly push him away from grit and realism , and into flash and fantasy . Though fans might miss the levity that made Richard Donner 's classic 1978 film Superman : The Movie such a game-changing joy , the thing that really sells this respectful reboot is the dramatic conviction underlying all the mega-scale mayhem . Man of Steel is not a graceful movie , in form or subject . It is about things getting smashed . The finale is a month of Sept. 11ths . By effectively denying Superman his defining traits-his complex relationships to duty and humanity-the movie robs the character of any depth or agency . The Superman franchise gets a muscular reboot in Zach Synder 's Man of Steel Was it in Shannon 's contract to have the same amount of screen time as the title character ? Trouble is , he 's as overdone as the product placements that are immune to the destruction . I like this movie in spite of itself , I guess . At the very least I have to hand it to the film that it 's not as awful as its 2006 predecessor . MAN OF STEEL is everything you 've ever wanted in a Superman movie The movie opens on Superman 's home planet of Krypton , and in a sense it never leaves . I know I feel cheated . I wonder what the real fans will think . 	Man of Steel provides exhilarating action and spectacle to overcome its detours into generic blockbuster territory .
1213717-salt We begin with Jolie blonde and beaten . We later realize she can handle herself . It 's just that the mission she 's on does n't matter . Because Salt takes itself with the poker face seriousness of the Bourne pictures only serves to make it more laughable . Oh , sure , it 's nutty-as-a-fruitcake insane ... but being this hugely entertaining goes a long way toward making you not want to laugh at it . Really , who goes to summer action movies for cast-iron logic anyway ? Or for plausible characters , for that matter ? The focus here is less on creating a credible set of characters and motives than on manufacturing an excuse to have Jolie leapfrog between high-speed lorries . Honestly , if this is the best the CIA , the Secret Service , the NYPD and whatever other government agency tasked with finding bad guys can do , we 're in worse trouble than we thought . Jolie 's action vehicle is just that -- an action vehicle , moving fast but thinking slow . [ Thanks to the ] kickass persona of Jolie , Salt is a relentless spy thriller that never slows down . Realism is n't the point , only thrills , which might leave more unprepared moviegoers cross-eyed as Salt rockets through Washington with the type of danger-avoidance skills typically assigned to Bugs Bunny . It 's everything you could ask for from a summer movie . 	Angelina Jolie gives it her all in the title role , and her seasoned performance is almost enough to save Salt from its predictable and ludicrous plot .
election 2 Like many Hong Kong mob movies , Triad Election Full Review | Original Score : 2.5/4 The movie ( TM ) s most powerful component is political . If it is too stylistically modest to win converts among the multiplex crowd , the film surely rewards followers of the genre . For anyone who saw Election , Johnnie To 's masterful , modern reworking of the Hong Kong Triad drama and its mythology , Election 2 is n't so much a sequel as a logical extension of the story . Each angle -- and To 's take on the plight of the modern gangster -- is inspired . Triad Election is something like a surprise candy , with a hard , sweet veneer and a shockingly bitter center . ... exhibit A in the case for the Hong Kong gangster film as the new genre standard . This remains a well-crafted genre movie , and one that promises further developments in its final scene . Comparisons to The Godfather Part II are inevitable . For a change , such comparisons are also favorable . Johnny To 's superb , graceful new Triad Election actually has quite a bit in common with Francis Coppola 's Godfather trilogy . 	Taking its cues from the Godfather series , Triad Election understands how a giddy mix of thrills and gunplay can make for compelling cinema .
invention of lying Ricky Gervais not only made a movie that is n't funny , he manages to offend all people of faith . For a self-avowed atheist , Ricky Gervais certainly focuses a lot on spirituality in his movies . The comedy is definitely there , but a heavy romantic focus drags it down in parts . Its strange concept and storyline make it something of a curiosity , too : you can have fun thinking about it even after it 's over . His comedy pretends to be unthreatening , a harmless little wheeze , and then pushes the envelope to its logical conclusion . The Invention of Lying gleefully deconstructs the standard rom-com , but it has n't a prayer as an anti-religious screed . The last third of the movie is as bad as anything I 've seen this year , with the laughs trailing off , and half of the supporting characters , the zestier ones , being airbrushed from the frame . Ricky Gervais is a brave and creative talent and this subversive , ultimately romantic film about the value of white lies certainly has its moments . I think the first half hour would be almost impossible to sustain because it is so inspired . All the dazzling , limitless comedic potential here , and we 're stuck waiting for the hot younger girl to wise up and learn to love the homely guy who wrote the movie ? 	It does n't quite follow through on its promise , and relies too heavily on shopworn romantic comedy tropes , but The Invention of Lying is uncommonly sly and funny .
my architect Overall [ Nathaniel Kahn 's ] attempt to find his father in his buildings , scars and all , is credible and well-paced , with neat visual rhymes that circle back to points raised earlier . The young Kahn is not a graceful filmmaker . Yet the subject matter is engrossing for anyone interested in architecture and also one of its greatest practitioners . Does Nathaniel finally find his father ? If so , it 's neither to excuse nor to condemn him but to do what he was unable properly to do at his father 's wake : say goodbye . A unique documentary -- part wounded meditation on the fractured state of the American family , part ruminative study of the power of the forgotten art that is architecture . What makes it enthralling is the younger Kahn 's openness to a range of emotional responses ( his own and others ' ) to his father 's life above and below board . A very warm , lyrical , humorous , moving and insightful film . [ `` My Architect '' ] is a practical , straightforward work that delivers in its quest to make known the accomplishments , and failings , of a genius . a film that could have been successful simply as a study of the several structures that are featured in it I imagine My Architect would have worked just as well as a personal essay with a nice photo spread for Harper 's Magazine or The New Yorker . A meticulously structured portrait of a complicated man who remains elusive even after key elements of the puzzle have been pieced together . 	A moving and enlightening documentary about architect Louis Kahn .
10008502-christmas carol exactly what I expected from Zemeckis and company . With the Dickens story as the foundation , it 's perfect for the holiday season Yes % u2014 I am giving A Christmas Carol a high rating . It is technical perfection and brilliantly done . However , it is too much Zemeckis , too much Carrey . Not enough Dickens . ... the heart of the story is there , and Zemeckis honors and respects it . There are already so many great adaptions of the classic Dickens story % u2013 this one adds nothing but CGI and gimmicky 3D effects . Yes , Zemeckis does throw in a few gratuitous moments where things are flying at your face , but he ends up using enough restraint to ensure the 3D does n't overwhelm your senses or take away from Dickens ' stirring story about greed and redemption . A Christmas Carol should be as cosy and familiar as piping-hot tea and buttered , toasted crumpets , not a brain-battering sensory assault that feels like downing tequila shots on a rollercoaster . Utilizing performance-capture technology , it 's intricate and ingenious , offering a 3-D fantasy/adventure thrill ride , soaring into the holiday season . Unfortunately , as good as the animation is , it never quite manages to bring any of the characters to life and the film fails to connect on an emotional level as a result . Succeeds in delivering a respectful -- if not always magical -- interpretation of Dickens ' famous tale . By Fezziwig , that story still works and tugs at the heart . It would even if each ghost 's visit were n't scored with overly-suitable Christmas carols . 	Robert Zemeckis ' 3-D animated take on the Dickens classic tries hard , but its dazzling special effects distract from an array of fine performances from Jim Carrey and Gary Oldman .
repo man Wickedly funny , ceaselessly inventive , and never boring . Defiant , antisocial 'tude in '80s punk sci-fi satire . It 's a one of a kind anomaly with Emilio Estevez at his best . Repo Man has the type of unerring energy that leaves audiences breathless and entertained . Pure weirdo fun . A playful mood informs Repo Man , yet Cox also takes time to comment on the seamy side of LA , the crushing realities of living in a comformist society , and the problems inherent in a decade that so baldly worships Reagan , L. Ron Hubbard and TV evangelists . Gloriously weird and wonderful , and may Mr. Stanton 's line about 'ordinary people ' long resound . There are endless things to enjoy , from Robby Mller 's crisp camerawork to a superb set of performances , from witty movie parodies to a tremendous punk soundtrack . Half-shaggy , half-annihilating vision of a junk culture The punk/sci-fi film to beat . 	Repo Man is many things : an alien-invasion film , a punk-rock musical , a send-up of consumerism . One thing it is n't is boring .
uncle boonmee The key is to let yourself go with the meandering current of its narrative . A mystical mood piece , this Palme d'Or winner is n't as hypnotic as the Thai master 's previous , Syndromes and a Century , but it has some absolutely stunning sequences . The vaporous mingling of the earthly and the supernatural settles over the film . Play along with it and enjoy one of the most bizarre and original films to come out this year . Throughout Uncle Boonmee , Weerasethakul sees weirdness and wonder in the mundane , from the taste of tea to a daylight stroll across a field alive with the buzz of honeybees . Spirit , animal , and human worlds coexist in dreamy harmony in this remarkable drama , winner of the 2010 Cannes Palme d'Or . Uncle Boonmee should count himself lucky if none of his future lives include having to watch this movie . Watching it seemed to last several lifetimes . A slow-burning cinematic riddle that worms its dreamy abstractions through the likes of melodrama , comedy , horror , fable , and documentary , [ the film ] is a free-spirited , hypnotic masterpiece-and that 's not a word to be thrown around lightly . A lustrous pastoral reverie This is a film that wants to be interesting , and it certainly is that . Whether you want to dine with the ghost and the monkey-man or not , they bring a new perspective to the table . The slightly muzzy , blended photography is often beautiful , and an aura of the uncanny-the spirit life entering the everyday-is strangely affecting . 	Languorous and deeply enigmatic , Palme d'Or winner Uncle Boonmee represents an original take on the ghosts that haunt us .
last orders The actors here are so extraordinarily adept at portraying the silences and exultations of their characters that the film becomes a kind of ode to comradeship , one unblinkered by cant or sentimentality . An epic with the economy of an epitaph , a flawlessly told tale about a flawed man . The storytelling may be ordinary , but the cast is one of those all-star reunions that fans of Gosford Park have come to assume is just another day of Brit cinema . Schepisi , aided by a cast that seems to include every top-notch British actor who did not appear in Gosford Park ( as well as one , Ms. Mirren , who did ) , has succeeded beyond all expectation . The lovely and richly textured British film Last Orders is as well-acted as any film you 'll ever see . Sad but satisfying . A reverent , lugubrious , often humorous account of Graham Swift 's Booker-winning novel . A splendid film about both life , death and lifelong friendships . Sloppily sentimental , dreary nonsense . While the flashback structure through which the surviving characters relive the past may have worked in the novel , it does n't work here on the screen . 	With a cast that includes some of the best acting talent in Britain , Last Orders is a rewarding character-driven ensemble piece .
the trip 2011 In its best moments , this is a pleasant trifle , but sometimes it 's just pleasantly boring . A rambling but illuminating odyssey that has as much to do with friendship - and the competition and conflicts that come with it - as it does with celebrating the comedic chops of its two stars . A funny and intelligent buddy movie about two men with similar talents but different personalities , traipsing across fog-shrouded northern England on a wild-goose chase . The Trip is a comedy about two guys going to fancy restaurants in the English countryside . Sounds hilarious , huh ? Well , it actually is . Infinitely funny and entertaining , but also ending on a coda of sadness , one that leaves you wondering how much of the real Steve Coogan and Rob Brydon are on display here ? Part road-movie , part restaurant-review , 100 % hilarious . By the time they were singing ABBA songs at the top of their lungs , I was gone . These guys are a hoot , and The Trip is a trip and a half . There is no earthly reason why Michael Winterbottom 's The Trip should work , and several reasons why it should n't . Remarkably , it does work . Have you ever been trapped in the back seat of a car while the old married couple up front bickers and banters for hours ? It 's either sheer torture or , if the couple happens to be Steve Coogan and Rob Brydon , wildly entertaining . So , this is new : a frequently hilarious comedy that is also totally satisfying on an emotional level . A satire of fame that is never mean-spirited , and is n't filled with obnoxious jokes aimed only at insiders . 	Amiable , funny and sometimes insightful , The Trip works as both a showcase for the enduring chemistry between stars Steve Coogan and Rob Brydon and an unexpected perusal of men entering mid-life crises .
final destination final death trip 3D watching 'death ' find new and inventive ways to kill people somehow still has n't gotten old yet and this latest chapter in the series is just as entertaining as the others . Wafer-thin , The Final Destination is definitely the weakest entry to date - but worth a 3d peep anyway if you enjoy rides like these . Death comes in 3D but everything else is tedious . Since not even 3-D can put your eyes out , our only hope is that this time , the title is a promise and not a tease . The destination of the title is never in any doubt , but the getting-there is giddily devious and playful . For the fourth outing in a thought-tired series , The Final Destination has some surprising sparks of life to it yet . Horror franchise 's leap to 3D is gorier than ever . `` The Final Destination '' takes a franchise that was never very good to begin with and somehow fails to come within reaching distance of the abysmally lowered artistic bar set by its predecessors . It 's death porn , pure and simple ... Reheats the package of fate and premonition with snoozy panache . Thought the title all but demands finality to the franchise , something tells me the `` Final '' at play here is more wicked irony than a welcome promise . An absolute slap in the face to the fans who made the franchise a hit in the first place . 	With little of the ingenuity of previous installments , The Final Destination is predictable , disposable horror fare .
how i killed my father A top-notch study of family angst . Fontaine 's direction , especially her agreeably startling use of close-ups and her grace with a moving camera , creates sheerly cinematic appeal . It 's a tour de force , written and directed so quietly that it 's implosion rather than explosion you fear . Brilliantly and pitilessly dissects a father-son relationship that has deteriorated beyond dysfunction . A bela construo de personagens merece elogios . Fontaine indulges her signature style , creating a carefully measured film -- the kind whose impact slowly sneaks up on its audience and haunts them long after leaving the theatre . [ T ] he pleasure is in watching veteran star Bouquet and the versatile Berling go at it -- they even seem to look alike . In the disturbingly involving family dysfunctional drama How I Killed My Father , French director Anne Fontaine delivers an inspired portrait of male-ridden angst and the emotional blockage that accompanies this human condition Brings a rare , clinically specific sense of moral complexity and humanistic sympathy to the usual regimen of finger-pointing and exposure . Cold , nervy and memorable . 	How I Killed My Father is a penetrating character study of father-son ties .
very bad things There is a line between gallows humor and tastelessness , but Very Bad Things apparently does n't have a clue where that might be . a blood-soaked parody of the American dream The gross-out humor lacks edge , the guilt never kicks in , and the outrages are predictable . It 's one flat brewski . On a darkness scale , this movie would be a few notches shy of a black hole . ... hollow , simple-minded and about as profound an experience as stepping in a pile of road kill . He [ Berg ] stages several legitimately funny moments of ghoulish humor and builds the comic and dramatic tension to a hilariously out-of-control finale . Its utter pointless sadism makes the movie unwatchable . Favreau and Diaz are agreeably blank as the cloying American everycouple , which lays the groundwork for a neat twist , but the film belongs to Slater and the devilish point in the arch of his eyebrow . Very Bad Things is a deliciously nasty morality tale that simply warns viewers that what goes around comes around . A scabrous black comedy like no other I 've ever seen ... 	Mean-spirited and empty .
masked and anonymous A simultaneously serious and satirical film that should delight longtime Bob Dylan fans and mystify nearly everyone else . An exhilarating and sometimes puzzling jumble that explores the dangers of power , the nature of Americana and the Bob Dylan myth , among many , many other things . The results are heavy-handed and oppressive in the way that vanity projects and bloated collective theatre experiments often are . A strange and convoluted film that is as rewarding as a Dylan song , and just as perplexing . A vanity production beyond all reason . Self-indulgent twaddle ... pretentious but impenetrable babble . Could just as well be titled 'Masters of War ' or 'Tombstone Blues ' or 'Everything Is Broken . ' At every cut in the action , you expect a gray flannel dwarf to scream ... A rambling , disjointed , semi-coherent hodgepodge that plays like a parody of a bad Dylan song . Watching the film is like listening to Art Bell babble about UFOs -- it seems always on the verge of making a point but never gets there . Movies are much too representational and finite to accommodate the Mbius strips of Dylan 's language . 	Unintelligible and self-indulgent Bob Dylan vehicle .
the-tigger-movie Perfect for the single-digit aged set , who will love it , and not terrible for adults since the film moves fast at a quick 75 minutes . Parents and older siblings , however , may grow impatient with the uneven execution that weakens the genuine charm the film sporadically exhibits . The new The Tigger Movie is simply , beautifully done , and art director Toby Bluth has indeed created the definitive Pooh film . I think this movie is perfect for kids my age , 9 , or younger . A positive film for kids and adults . They ( grown-ups ) need to pretend to be little kids again , so they wo n't make too much fuss over a plot and 'message ' that are ultra-simple and far from original . Tigger 's bouncy quest will appeal to younger viewers . One of the movie 's strengths is the score by Richard M. Sherman and Robert B. Sherman . My 4-year-old niece Rachael ( who , for the record , loved the movie , as did her 6-year-old sister Megan and 2-year-old sister Emily ) astutely compared 'Tigger ' to 'The Last Unicorn , ' one of her personal favorites ... ... designed to appeal primarily towards younger audiences ... 	Tigger Movie may lack the technological flash and underlying adult sophistication of other recent animated movies , but it 's fun and charming .
what about bob A delightful annoying-person comedy made even more amusing by the fact that Murray and Dreyfuss could n't stand one another in real life . Above all else , What About Bob ? addresses the way many a patient feels when his psychiatrist has the nerve to go away without giving a thought to his problems . Perhaps it is just one desperate cosmic cry for help . Then again , maybe it 's a threat . Dreyfuss e Murray estabelecem uma boa dinmica nesta comdia irregular , mas agradvel . Murray , with his curious blend of pathos and aggressiveness , is terrific , and so is an acutely uptight Dreyfuss , never once copping a plea for our sympathy . If you 're a little discerning , you wont make the distance . Both Dreyfuss and Murray give droll performances , and the film resists the temptation to side with either nut . This is an amiable comedy if there ever was one . That 's no criticism : if all innocuous comedies were as satisfying as What About Bob ? you would n't always feels the need for some subversive humor . Boomers being really charming and funny . Its less is more approach makes for a brilliantly constructed plot in which Murray becomes more and more obnoxious and Dreyfuss is gradually driven to distraction by his eccentric little ways . With Dreyfuss and Murray on top form , not even the familiar plotline -- uptight rich person meets free-wheeling poor person and learns about life -- can prevent this lunatic comedy from being funny . 	Bill Murray and Richard Dreyfuss ' chemistry helps make the most of a familiar yet durable premise , elevating What About Bob ? into the upper ranks of '90s comedies .
chicago 10 The ultimate lesson ? Sometimes you make a noble point by acting like a jackass . Revisits 1968 as a court room drama , through a fresh cinematic look to avoid period clichs while broadening history 's appeal to both boomers and their children . Chicago 10 is a reminder of a time when the counter-culture was out on the street making noise -- a history lesson so removed from our present political climate it feels almost like science fiction . However authentically chaotic , Chicago 10 is insufficiently frenzied . For all its shock value , the trial was not the only game in town . Morgen recaptures the unreal air of the whole chapter ; you can imagine young audiences understanding , perhaps for the first time , what the fuss was about . let freedom ring ! Brett Morgen 's agit-prop documentary augments its excellent assemblage of archival footage with capture-motion animation to rep the courtroom antics , all in the service of an ideologically loaded approach . Worth seeing for the expert archival selections , but a decidedly mixed bag for anyone familiar , or unfamiliar , with the times . Defying chronology and without interviews or narration , Morgen 's inventive docu is a colorful chronicle of the Democratic Convention and Conspiracy Trial perfectly tuned to our politically charged times -- a call to arms that 's not didactic or preachy It 's hard not to think of the many other protestors , detainees , and U.S. citizens whose rights are being stifled as we speak . 	Brett Morgan 's half-animated , half-documentary film is an arresting , sometimes visionary portrait of the historic and chaotic trial .
cool hand luke Stuart Rosenberg 's direction is a horror , but the cast teems with so many familiar faces that this 1967 film ca n't help but entertain . Cool Hand Luke is the most engaging allegory of Christ . gorgeous looking and terrifically acted An amazing accomplishment by Newman as the best fight man has left in him . Too cool for words , then switches past midstream into a work of poignancy and power . Newman remains watchable and glamorous throughout , bloody , muddy or coated in torso-flattering sweat , but the film 's efforts to sentimentally `` humanize '' him by psychological revelation are clumsy . The lines and the character have survived the film 's oft-forgotten actual message . Thematic ambivalence and episodic structure start to feel like major virtues : Cool Hand Luke is one of our most lived-in and pleasurably paced odes to nonconformity . That traditional object of sorrow and compassion in American folk song and lore , the chain-gang prisoner , is given as strong a presentation as ever he has had on the screen . A tough , taut , smart milestone in the evolution of the American anti-hero , and cracking entertainment too . 	Though hampered by Stuart Rosenberg 's direction , Cool Hand Luke is held aloft by a stellar script and one of Paul Newman 's most indelible performances .
1204946-children a creepy genre treat that is damn-near perfect in its execution . The Children is a surprisingly tense , slow-brewing horror film that plays on current trends ( rabid flu-like infections ) and refreshes old clichd conventions ( killer children ) . A novel idea that deserves a remake with better effects , better writing and better acting . The fundamentally disturbing and creepy aspects about such random and unpredictable child-centric mayhem are always present , no matter how ludicrously intense and darkly humorous things get . Borrowing liberally from classic evil-children horrors , the gruesome deaths are inventive , but this is more about killer set-pieces than a satisfying story . A respectable genre outing . The idea of cosseted middle-class tots becoming feral psychopaths has potential , though most of it is squandered by uncertain direction and some unconvincing psychology . Shankland 's approach is oblique rather than graphic , but these icy chills will send shivers down your spine . This efficient British chiller ticks the right boxes . As killer kid horror movies go , 'The Children ' is easily one of the best . The Children could be a blackly comic warning to give kids their MMR jabs , an anti ( or pro ) abortion metaphor ( one male victim looks like they 're giving birth and Toynton 's character was almost aborted ) , or simply a bloody , good horror film . 	Unsettling and spine-chilling low-budget British horror , with effective and disturbing scares .
love crime Corneau paints the business scenes with brushstrokes that are n't always credible but is better at the psychological battle between the two women , aided by very watchable performances from Scott Thomas and Sagnier . The interplay between the two very different leads and the involving , increasingly dark story keep things moving along nicely . Unfortunately , Alain Corneau 's film lacks the camera movements and swelling soundtrack to make this classic melodrama in the grand tradition . It 's more akin to TV soap opera . Ambition at any price is the theme of this riveting psychological thriller in which Ludivigne Sagnier and Kristin Scott Thomas go head to head in a tale that is a study in tension [ VIDEO ] `` Love Crime '' is a meaty little corporate thriller that pulls the rug from clichs of the genre . A great French thriller never gets old . This one promises to age very well . With actors as accomplished as Scott Thomas and Sagnier , the film could hardly be dull , and it is n't . Sagnier 's performance is superb , and a tribute to Corneau 's skill with two very fine actors . Every office scene feels so blatantly like an actor trying to create an approximation of what office work and banter feels like , that it amounts to spending the entirety of a marionette show watching the puppeteer and not the puppets . One of the best thrillers to come along in a while . Rather than contemplating the tension of performance , we are resigned to watching the elements of the story click mechanically and rather drearily into place . The elaborate schemings which occupy the second half are really quite implausible . It 's enjoyable enough on a certain level , but not a very high one . 	Director Corneau 's swan song , Love Crime is smart and typically well-directed , but too thin and formulaic to overcome its melodramatic trappings .
american pie 2 It has all the essential ingredients -- same writer , same cast , same suburban Michigan setting -- but it 's sour now , with the texture of soggy cardboard . Watching American Pie 2 is like going to a party where only half your friends have shown up . The most sluggish of dumb comedies , a picture that does n't even have the brains to speed through witless material . Uma plida sombra de seu antecessor ... American Pie 2 has a specific young audience in mind . What the rest of us think of this film 's over-sexed , sophomoric hi-jinks makes no never mind . The American Pie take on teenage sexuality is far more leering and prurient in its banana-peel fashion than the in-your-face voyeurism of Larry Clark 's Bully . These are people we do n't mind seeing again , and it makes sense to show what happened to them after they came of age . Here , the jokes are their own feeble reason for being ; some are mildly funny , but most just fall flat with a dull clunk . I had a good time at American Pie 2 , maybe because the characters are broad comic types , well played ; the movie feels some sympathy for their dilemmas , and because it 's obsessed with sex . There 's a certain amount of energy and originality that 's lacking . 	Being a sequel , American Pie 2 does n't retain the freshness of the original , nor is it as funny .
nurse betty The compassion and humor in the script makes it one of the year 's best . As with all good uses of enchantment , Nurse Betty deposits us , in the end , back where we started -- but different , changed , with new ways of looking . May very well be this years American Beauty . Often takes violent turns that are unnecessary and repellent . While Nurse Betty can hardly be called a mainstream movie , it will undoubtedly be deemed more accessible than its predecessors , thanks in large part to the exceptional strength of the four leads . An over-the-map lampoon so well grounded on so many different levels , you gawk at it with a sense of sublime ( but curious ) appreciation . Somewhere between tension and release lies the heart of laughter , and Neil LaBute knows just where that spot is . This could have been a leftfield little gem , but LaBute struggles somewhat with the light comedy . and there 's also the small plot problem : since Betty is as mad as a bag of baboons , it 's difficult to really sympathise with her . The cleverly contrived script might have seemed too arch and precious if it had been less deftly handled or if the film 's performances were less subtle . If I had to use just one word to describe Nurse Betty , that word would undoubtedly be ... Quirky . And I mean that in a really , really good way . 	Quirky in the best sense of the word , Nurse Betty finds director Neil LaBute corralling a talented cast in service of a sharp , imaginative script .
1077847-george of the jungle There is not a banana 's worth of plot in the Dana Olsen and Audrey Wells script to offer narrative nourishment . In what other movie will you see a capuchin monkey give a high-five to an elephant ? The only resemblances to the classic cartoon are that trees still get in George 's way , Shep the elephant still thinks he is a doggie , the ape named Ape still talks , and his girlfriend 's name is still Ursula . Take only that part of you that is still 11 years old and check your brain at the door . This movie ai n't perfect , but it 's very cool to watch . An amiable , highly ingratiating piece of lowbrow entertainment , and the audience of mainly young children and parents I saw it with on Saturday night clearly had a ball . So did I . This live-action Disney version is so silly , so garishly over-the-top , and so bracingly eager to please , that it 's hard not to fall under its gleefully gooney spell . Despite a few bright moments , however , too much of the film is made up of the kind of flailing manic behavior that passes for slapstick these days . Totally silly & tree-smashing , but still with hip clever jokes & some jokes that felt familiar even though I have never seen the cartoon . The comedy in George of the Jungle is not sophisticated , but it is frequently audacious and irreverent . 	George of the Jungle is faithful to its source material -- which , unfortunately , makes it a less-than-compelling feature film .
die hard 2 1990 As vapid as it is violent . Willis confirms his status as one of the best action men around -- he can actually act . Bruce Willis wonders aloud how it could happen to him again , but dons the white singlet anyway for this second hugely entertaining slice of action hokum . Loaded with plausibility problems , but so fast a mover that we ca n't think about it . And that 's all to the good . Standard sequel works well thanks to Willis and the high-flying heroics . One might think a movie with a reported budget of $ 62 million would have had a few bucks to spend on a gaffe spotter . A sequel worth seeing . Unbelievably , the sequel did not suck as badly as its title had initially implied . It will surprise no one who saw the first Die Hard that the heart and soul of the new film is Bruce Willis , who this time is even better . Though it has an inventive and unexpected plot twist , Die Hard 2 lacks credibility . `` Die Hard '' was that rare modern action picture with a wholly believable plot . 	It lacks the fresh thrills of its predecessor , but Die Hard 2 still works as an over-the-top -- and reasonably taut -- big-budget sequel , with plenty of set pieces to paper over the plot deficiencies .
outlander There is n't a single scene in this story about a traveler from another planet who crash-lands on Earth during the Iron Age that does n't remind you of another , better movie . We are now deep , deep , deep into nerd territory , so deep you will get a nosebleed in your diving suit . Combine this with a humourless screenplay and unimaginative direction , and Outlander is heavy going . In Outlander , the nuttiest hunk of junk in many months , Viking warriors and a stoic intergalactic traveler join forces to combat an enormous beetle with whiplash stingers . Sure , it 's cheesy and the acting is ropey at times , but the monster is scary enough to have you screaming in your sleep . To nobody 's surprise , it 's a rubbish but loveably camp shambles . Outlander may very well have been pitched as Beowulf meets Predator , but it 's like buying a tin of tuna steak and opening it to find it 's chopped pork and ham . You can think about Outlander 16 different ways , and still arrive at the same conclusion : It just does n't work . Vikings vs aliens - what 's not to love ? This delivers pretty much everything you could hope for from a movie whose premise basically boils down to Vikings fighting aliens . Stunning special effects and bloody battle sequences make it just the ticket for a popcorn monster fantasy . If you want to engage your brain , best avoid . 	Schizophrenic in subject and lackluster in execution , Outlander might have trouble finding the cult audience for which it was built .
joe 2013 `` Joe '' paints a rich , multilayered portrait of a hardscrabble existence in this community , not unlike the world we encountered in Debra Granik 's `` Winter 's Bone . '' Green specialises in a soulful naturalism , and Joe contrasts moments of Malick-style lyricism with scenes of extreme brutality . Ultimately , the plot feels second to a well-executed , beautifully shot look at various struggles around class , opportunity and crushing rural poverty . If you 've missed Nicolas Cage and the special qualities he brings to movies , `` Joe '' is a good place to get reacquainted . Another strong movie from David Gordon Green , Joe makes beautiful use of its Mississippi setting and reminds us that Nicolas Cage can still do great work . Poulter 's intensity matches Cage 's , note for note . The frightening verisimilitude of his portrayal lends the film a cinema verite realism that nicely mutes some of Cage 's star power . Nicolas Cage doing some of his most focused , deepest work . The film may take one too many detours on an overly familiar road , but it 's been crafted with real feeling . The fluency of the storytelling is n't always up to snuff , and Green is prone to inserting in spurious single-serving scenes which feel like they 're there to artificially bolster the character motivations . It 's a classic redemption narrative where the ongoing temptations of violence culminate in a sort of justice . 	Rich in atmosphere and anchored by a powerful performance from Nicolas Cage , Joe is a satisfying return to form for its star -- as well as director David Gordon Green .
dear frankie Light and predictable , but it still got to me . An endearing , occasionally sentimental story told with depth and substance . A little movie , and that should n't be taken as a pejorative . It can be sweet without being sickening , as heart-rending as McElhone 's soulful gaze . `` Dear Frankie , '' with its strong casting and confident direction , is a lasting love letter worth experiencing . ... a rare and endearing portrait of a mother 's unconditional if not always judicious love for her only child . This is a little gem of a film . Director Shona Auerbach ca n't steer clear of the 10-car clich pileup within Andrea Gibb 's tear-jerking script . A small movie with a big soul and no easy formula for the happiness of its big-hearted characters . Filled with small moments of tenderness , insight and considerable wisdom . I adored Frankie , his mum , and his movie ... and if you have to have a fake dad , you could n't ask for somebody better than Gerald Butler . 	Dear Frankie is a small , good-hearted film with fine performances .
1196003-princess and the frog A charming and fun tale for children and adults alike . It 's fantastic that a mostly hand-drawn Disney film will be a part of the story when history books write about this great year for the form . But maybe I 'm just old-fashioned . Its approach is both daring and traditional at the same time . For the most part , it 's a winner : spirited , funny and even complex in a way that 's been foreign to recent Disney cartoons . Dependably charming and enjoyable . This is the first Disney animated film about an African-American princess , and this delightful fairy tale could n't come at a better time , what with the two little African-American princesses who live in the White House . click to read full review Parental Content Review Somehow , the result is both magically old-fashioned and wonderfully modern , the natural evolution of the heartwarming , rib-tickling , toe-tapping Disney treasures of yesteryear . Advertising campaigns be damned , the film is most progressive in its decision to not emphasize the color of its hard-working heroine 's skin . 	The warmth of traditional Disney animation makes this occasionally lightweight fairy-tale update a lively and captivating confection for the holidays .
monte carlo 2011 Selena Gomez may have shot to stardom as a bratty wiseass on Wizards of Waverly Place , but it 's her featureless dramatic chops that best benefit Monte Carlo . But it 's Gomez , on the poster in a ball gown and cowboy boots , who will lure the audience into the theaters . And she is ... fine . Shenanigans masquerading as fun . A corny grown-up 's vision of teenage wish-fulfilment , like a sexless Sex And The City 2 . Silly but sweet travel comedy says to be true to yourself . A comprehensive waste of time and money . The movie hits a surprising range of emotional grace notes , including several moments of genuine regret , and concludes with an understated moral lesson about the value of self-respect over social status , Frothy , corny , adolescent wish-fulfillment fantasy A dull fantasy-farce of luxe hotel suites , hot guys and product-placement jewellery , a pretty unappetising mix that the film tries to justify at the end with some blather about Romanian orphanages . `` Do n't mess with Texas ! '' Emma snarls at the captive Cordelia , the girl tied to a chair with an apple lodged in her mouth . Yes , it 's as unclean and creepily disconcerting as it sounds . 	Although it has its charming moments , Monte Carlo is mostly silly , predictable stuff that never pushes beyond the boundaries of formula .
short cuts An absolutely brilliant , 3-hour examination of detached , dysfunctional behavior in modern America . Easily one of Altman 's best films . If you enjoy all the subpar rip-offs that came later , like Magnolia , do yourself a favor and see this movie now . There are several scenes of light comedy , warm humanity , or cold tragedy . Although Altman 's masterful hands manage to keep our attention from the beginning till the end , Short Cuts does n't deserve all of the praise received by the critics . One of the great films of the 1990s Robert Altman revisited Nashville territory , and surpassed it , with this 1993 masterpiece . A triumphant rendition of Raymond Carver 's vision of life on the edge of chaos . Altman is still at the top of his brilliant abilities . We are never made to care much about the afflicted characters because Altman does n't and thereby the stories carry very little weight . The movie is based on short stories by Raymond Carver , but this is Altman 's work , not Carver 's , and all the film really has in common with its source is a feeling for people who are disconnected . 	Robert Altman 's ensemble drama deftly integrates its disparate characters and episodes into a funny , poignant , emotionally satisfying whole .
melancholia-2008 It 's impossible not to be moved in a profound way by the small events that take place within the larger one . Von Trier seems content to broach ideas rather than explore them and , consequently , his movie is technically accomplished and teasing rather than intellectually provocative . The apocalypse has never looked better . I was rooting for the planet Melancholia to pull off its impossible scripted orbital maneuver so it could at last put this stupid movie out of its misery . No moviemaker I know creates psychodramas so hard to watch and difficult to forget . If we esteem Sylvia Plath , Vincent van Gogh and Samuel Beckett , Von Trier deserves our attention , too . ... a seriously oppressive piece of work . The end of the world , von Trier-style , is a middling thing as a film . When the film threatens to spin totally off its axis and into the deep space of boredom , it is Dunst , capricious , tender and frightening , who keeps it on course . Stunningly directed , beautifully shot and superbly written , this is a mesmerising and powerfully moving end-of-the-world drama with a glorious soundtrack and a career-best performance from Kirsten Dunst . A mind-blowing end-of-the world drama that challenges us to take stock of our beliefs , feelings , and fears about death . 	Melancholia 's dramatic tricks are more obvious than they should be , but this is otherwise a showcase for Kirsten Dunst 's acting and for Lars von Trier 's profound , visceral vision of depression and destruction .
let the right one in With its bursts of horrific violence and stark , matter of fact mannerism , Let the Right One In instantly becomes one of the few outright foreign fright film classics . this is a moody , original take on the vampire film . ... Anyone interested in vampire films or relationship films will enjoy this fantastic picture A chilling coming-of-age story in which a miserable adolescent strikes up a friendship with a vampire girl who appears to be own his age but has , she says , been 12 `` for a very long time . '' A smart and welcome vampire film . And although it provides the usual horrors , its most frightening one may be the stark loneliness of a child . Almost ethereal , subtle , nuanced and the calmest vampire movie you 're ever likely to see Not the be-all-end-all groundbreaker some are labeling it as , but it does put a new , sweet spin on a subgenre long in need of some freshening up . Acaba funcionando tambm como uma contundente alegoria sobre a imprevisibilidade da natureza humana , que traz , em sua imensa diversidade , monstros infinitamente piores do que aqueles com longos caninos . A remarkably moving horror tale , about a pale , bullied twelve-year-old boy ( Kre Hedebrant ) and his first love ( Lina Leandersson ) , who happens to be a vampire . The film is done with style . Mostly through images . If random arty blood thrills are your cup of fear , perhaps you 'll enjoy Let the Right One In , a Swedish head-scratcher that has a few creepy images but very little holding them together . 	Let the Right One In reinvigorates the seemingly tired vampire genre by effectively mixing scares with intelligent storytelling .
hills have eyes ... proficient entertainment ... It was going to take a lot to sell me on the remake . It delivered . ... this remake of The Hills Have Eyes still manages to evoke its quota of creepiness ... If you like your horror movies with a high creep factor and more blood than scares , head for the Hills , if you do n't fit in that category head for a different theater ! The moral ? Even the most limpwristed Demmy-crat will turn into a steely-eyed killing machine when the chips are down . The resulting bloodbath , both nasty and hilarious , is a master class in the art of the remake , wavering somewhere between respectful reimagining and gleeful pastiche . The film is intelligent and aware , if utterly gross , and on a technical level it 's first-rate . As skillfully made and genuinely horrific as it is a pointless rehash ... .there 's more than a whiff of smug cynicism in the dry air of this conflicted satire . ... Aja and his gorehound ilk are making movies that simply wallow in state-of-the-art displays of torture , sadism and sexual humiliation . Falls into the trap of delivering its relentless arsenal of painful images with almost sedated enthusiasm . The movie has no venom . 	Faster paced for today 's audiences , this Hills remake ratchets up the gore for the hardcore horror fans , but will turn away casual audiences .
woodsman Kevin Bacon 's superb performance alone is reason enough to recommend 'The Woodsman . ' It 's too bad that the film itself is n't as courageous as he is . Bacon deservedly has received most of the attention here , but Sedgwick , who does n't work nearly enough , brings grit and hardscrabble realism to the role of a woman who has turned defiance into a protective shield . A flawed film that 's well worth seeing . Kevin Bacon delivers a haunting performance in Nicole Kassell 's impressive feature-directorial debut `` The Woodsman . '' ** Rewarding performances ... but Kassell hedges her bets . Not only does she ease Walter 's plight by pairing him with Sedgwick , so too are his crimes cut down to size . An uneasy , sometimes difficult film to watch - rare at the movies these days . But as a study in pedophilia , there is plenty to be said for the conversation it ignites . This astonishingly accomplished first feature by director and co-writer Nicole Kassell , with an unnerving performance by Kevin Bacon , will haunt you for days . Here 's a year-end `` for your award consideration '' release that does have a chance , at least in positioning Bacon for acting award kudos Gripping film . Unfolds in exactly the way you expect a sensitive Sundance indie to handle this distasteful subject matter ... 	Kevin Bacon 's performance as a pedophile who is trying to start fresh has drawn raves from critics , who have praised the Woodsman as compelling , creepy , complex and well-crafted .
identity keeps viewers guessing , provides several solid jolts , builds to a perfectly acceptable ending -- then ca n't resist adding on a few more twists that finally push the picture dangerously close to the border of unintentional comedy . From setup to finish , this clever little thriller pulls you in , plants you firmly on the edge of your set , and strands you there gripping the armrests . This gimmicky whodunit never convinces us that it would be worth slogging through again . The more astute moviegoers may pick up where the film is heading more quickly than others , but Identity 's payoff does not disappoint . A genuinely cunning psychological thriller . a solid thriller - until it implodes . It gives you a savory first course , then rudely dumps seconds on your plate , even though you 've already lost your appetite . What 's terrific about Mangold is that he does n't slavishly clone other , earlier films but actually tries to bring something fresh to the familiar . An interesting mix of ghoulish gore stuff , smart writing and tongue-in-cheek thriller-isms . The puzzle pieces are all there . But when you put them all together , the result is a bit of a gyp -- neat but utterly forgettable . Effective , well-crafted chiller . 	Identity is a film that will divide audiences -- the twists of its plot will either impress or exasperate you .
a perfect getaway This is pretty light fare , but it does not pretend to be anything but a populist popcorn flick shot to be shown in the latter part of the summer . I just do n't think there was enough drama in the first two-thirds of this movie . A hugely entertaining pulp thriller that delivers the goods in a stylish an effective manner that beats most other recent films of its ilk like a gong A `` smart '' thriller - the title itself is intended to convey that this is an ideal summer popcorn movie - but it 's a little too tricky for its own good . Occupies some strange middle ground for people in the mood for not much thinking and a little action , but not too much . A slight film , slight in its surprises and in its suspense , and yet not totally devoid of either . Fast and twisty , A Perfect Getaway is an economical little thriller that pretty much accomplishes everything it sets out to do . A terrific twist , but goes wasted in a movie that really runs out of steam . A Perfect Getaway is never great , but Twohy is n't aspiring for greatness -- he 's after gritty and lively and weird . And that 's good enough . Writer-director David Twohy is too much in love with his hipper-than-thou dialogue , but he plants some sneaky scares along the trail . 	While smarter than the average slasher film , A Perfect Getaway eventually devolves into a standard , predictable , excessively violent thriller .
lethal weapon 2 Better than the first ! A much better film than its predecessor . It 's smarter , funnier and more action-packed . If you liked Lethal Weapon , you 'll like Lethal Weapon 2 ; it 's almost as simple as that . One of the finest examples of the genre , and , in my humble estimation , one of the greatest sequels put to film . Perhaps deranged hyperbole , but rarely does a follow-up outgun the original film as swiftly as Lethal 2 does . A film with the same off-center invention and wild energy as the original . Worse than the first , but better than the rest . Sequel adds Joe Pesci to the buddy cop formula . Too jokey and cutesy . This is where the series took a wrong turn toward too much comedy , but the public did n't seem to mind . Simplistic and manipulative , but it 's hard to trump the Gibson and Glover team . Pesci 's terrific comic performance really gooses the proceedings , but the film also works because of its exciting action content , the presence of Patsy Kensit as Riggs ' love interest , and the series-best interplay between the two lead characters . 	Lethal Weapon 2 may sport a thin plot typical of action fare , but its combination of humor and adrenaline , along with the chemistry between its leads , make this a playful , entertaining sequel .
phantom of the opera Fantastic sets , costumes , great art direction and imaginative camera work make this a visually stunning film . The musical score , not so much . Lloyd Webber 's dated songs are like goth-lite for the Michael Bolton set . Fans of the musical `` The Phantom of the Opera '' , however , will find plenty to like in this filmic adaptation but its faults could have easily sunk the entire production . It 's an inviting playground for repressed desire of an enduring favorite in pulp fiction to explode anew . If you can get on its dank and heavy wavelength , the whole project is so aesthetically rich that it manages to transcend that it 's , at heart , a lot of dressed-up goofiness . Much like his adaptations of The Client and the French film Cousin , Cousine , Schumacher is able to fully embrace the spectacle of the source material . Conjures up this unexplainable spell that leaves audiences sad , sentimental , swooning , smiling -- in some way transported and moved . It 's clear that this kind of cornball , overly melodramatic material is best kept to the stage . It was the '80s . You really had to be there . Preferably with low expectations . Webber 's lushly romantic score ( played in this instance by a 100-piece orchestra ) has the ability to overpower lingering reservations . 	The music of the night has hit something of a sour note : Critics are calling the screen adaptation of Andrew Lloyd Webber 's popular musical histrionic , boring , and lacking in both romance and danger . Still , some have praised the film for its sheer spectacle .
1167811-ballets russes With a wealth of archival footage , the movie brings 70-plus years of dance alive . A captivating if somewhat conventional documentary . Vintage footage and modern interviews and staged 'events ' tell the tale of this important piece of art history . This footage is rough and relatively artless in cinematic terms but even through the grainy footage , one can get a real sense of the power and grace that the dancers brought to their craft . A deeply affectionate and informative study of some of the greatest ballet dancers who ever pirouetted across a stage . Directors Dan Geller and Dayna Goldfine have done a fine job of locating old footage of the companies -- much in color -- but an even better one of locating the company 's old dancers . The talking heads , clips and photos are all so warm and dynamic that they make for quite a watchable film . This very conventional PBS style videodoc should not viewed before operating heavy machinery . However , there 's plenty to fascinate devotees of the dance . ... a heartening affirmation of the spirit that helped many dancers to thrive in their heyday more than half a century ago and to survive as teachers , dance devotees and priceless raconteurs . Ballets Russes does an amazing job of unearthing footage of the famous ballet troupe from its beginnings in turn-of-the-century Paris through to its demise in the '60s . 	Even if you know little about ballet , there is much to love about this documentary 's captivating archival footage and its interviews with elderly former dancers who have much to share .
emperors new clothes Ian Holm can pretty much improve any film he 's in . Here his enormous acting skills are used to great comedic effect . It 's a great big snore . [ Holm 's role is ] a royal , finely modulated double performance by an actor who always wears his powers with graceful modesty . Unlike a vaguely similarly-themed film , Dave , New Clothes is not concerned with what the unwitting usurper does , but who he becomes . Though not without a few leaps in logic , this entertaining and light-hearted film succeeds mostly due to the commanding presence of Holm in the dual roles . In tampering with history , these storytellers present to us a rare and wonderful case of enlightenment beyond the accepted truth . Both a historical rumination and a fanciful romantic comedy . The enormous comic potential of an oafish idiot impersonating an aristocrat remains sadly unrealized . Gives Holm one of his rare cracks at a true starring role , and the man is magnificent . A delightful , if minor , pastry of a movie . 	The premise of The Emperor 's New Clothes is intriguing , and Holm gives a delightful performance .
manhattan One of Woody 's most aesthetically gorgeous films as well as his classic love-hate letter to the city of his soul . The genius of Allen 's approach is to present the real Manhattan in such a way that you realize the Hollywood Manhattan is actually there . Its emotional honesty and depth , tender and humane humour and remarkable sensual splendour place Manhattan among Allen 's best . Has self-flagellation ever been this elegant ? Defining , dry Woody Allen paean to New York City . The film perfectly captured the insecurity of late 1970s America . After taking a fresh look at the DVD of Manhattan , it 's apparent that this is n't Woody Allen 's greatest film . However , it is easily his most beautiful , with breathtaking black & white vistas of the titular city set to Gershwin 's 'Rhapsody in Blue . ' Manhattan is a great film about love in and love for New York . A black and white movie of black and white quality Woody Allen 's gem of comic kvetching . 	One of Woody Allen 's early classics , Manhattan combines modern , bittersweet humor and timeless romanticism with unerring grace .
hoodwinked too hood vs evil If ever there was a movie that should have gone straight to video - or better yet , never have been made - this is it . The results are irreverent , fast , funky and funny . And hey , there may be a lesson or two in there for youngsters - especially girls - to pick up on along the way . Full of manic momentum and nattering , witless word play , the movie has all the charm of a mudslide . If your little ones are clamoring for this then make them wait for cable . The only thing to admire is Anne Hathaway 's decision to skip this cheap-o sequel . Hosting the Oscars offered a narrower risk of embarrassment . Somewhere during the first 30 minutes I actually felt my soul shrivel up and die . Trust me , you 've had more entertaining colonoscopies . Once upon a time , fairy tales were told with beauty , wit , simplicity and charm , a tradition that seems increasingly a thing of the past in Hoodwinked Too ! Hood vs . Evil . By the time a list of `` Happy Days '' plot lines are recited , it 's clear that even as a hipster goof , `` Hoodwinked Too ! '' is as fresh as a day-old Muffin Man . `` Hoodwinked Too , '' which runs an eternity-risking 85 minutes , plays like a jaded rehash of other pictures . And none of those other pictures , sadly , is the original `` Hoodwinked . '' The film 's ending sets things up for another sequel , and that worries me . Do you realize how many fairy tales can be Hoodwinked ? ! ! ! 	It may add 3D to the original , but Hoodwinked Too ! is missing the first installment 's wit and refreshingly low-budget charm .
role models ... a well-crafted concoction , from the brilliant payoff of a running gag about KISS to its unique blend of crassness and huggability . Role Models seemed like a movie that was so easy to make . Scott and Rudd play the same characters they always play and it is perfectly formulaic . Did I mention that it is pretty hilarious ? what Drillbit Taylor should have been if it had gone for an R rating instead of the safe PG-13 Role Models is foul-mouthed , warm-hearted , brilliantly stupid ... and the best comedy of the year . Like so many of Hollywood 's youth oriented comedies , this is like a mound of dog turd flavoured with honey ; the crass vulgarities are sweetened by add-on humanity . But just like dog turd with honey on it , the mess is unappetising Each bottom feeding joke manages to be more side-splitting than the last . Excellent anarchic fun with a twist of psychological truth . Role Models is the kind of movie you do n't see every day , a comedy that is funny . But even with the film 's few flaws , Wain has proven with Role Models that he could eventually be mentioned in the same breath with R-rated comedy masters Judd Apatow , Kevin Smith and the Farrelly brothers . While better than it should be , if you listen hard enough you can actually hear a barrel being scraped between the gags . 	Role Models is a frequently crude , always funny comedy with the cast providing solid work throughout .
1114866-last kiss The trouble is that there 's only so much emotional energy you can expend on these assholes before you start wondering why you 're paying attention to them at all . Do n't let the Italian context throw you . You 've seen this crowd many times before , although probably not in anything as bombastic and tiresome as The Last Kiss . The vigorous , unsubtle acting provides consistent pleasure , once you stop expecting it to seem realistic . It 's a vast , messy -- but sharply edited -- circle that writer-director Gabriele Muccino makes inherently watchable with balanced doses of comedy and reality . Fits nicely into a new genre that seems intent upon examining whether marriage -- or even love -- are the answers to everything . The director knows how to apply textural gloss , but his portrait of sex-as-war is strictly sitcom . While puerile men dominate the story , the women shine . There 's a lot more going on here than appears on the surface . It 's the usual struggle of growing up and growing old , but Muccino 's twists are plucky and revealing when he 's not suffocating us with heavy-handed mortality and pathos . Muccino 's brisk direction and an enthusiastic cast provide considerable polish . 	Well-preformed , but it 's nothing we have n't seen before .
videodrome Veers from being risible to sinister as it explores how viewers are brainwashed by TV . [ I ] t stands out as one of Cronenberg 's very best . David Cronenberg 's most visionary and audacious film up to the time of its making , Videodrome is a fascinating rumination on humanity , technology , entertainment , sex , and politics that is virtually incomprehensible on first viewing . Thematically , it connects easily with most other titles in the Cronenberg oeuvre , with the added treat of having been released far ahead of its time . Film is dotted with video jargon and ideology which proves more fascinating than distancing . And Cronenberg amplifies the freaky situation with a series of stunning visual effects . Videodrome operates as a study in metaphysics ; it draws attention to its medium and in doing so cleverly violates its fiction . A horror film of unusual substance and vision -- the first film from David Cronenberg that announced his true importance as a filmmaker . Nearly twenty years after Videodrome was shot , it still feels contemporary . More weird than scary . Never coherent and frequently pretentious , the film remains an audacious attempt to place obsessive personal images before a popular audience -- a kind of Kenneth Anger version of Star Wars . 	Visually audacious , disorienting , and just plain weird , Videodrome 's musings on technology , entertainment , and politics still feel fresh today .
american in paris Got only the vaguest connection to plot or character , but it 's a gorgeous piece of filmmaking . Beautifully designed , An American in Paris features plenty of unnecessarily lengthy dance numbers and a mildly interesting plot . The plot was showing signs of age far earlier than 1951 , but everything else about An American in Paris more than compensates . A musical both ludicrously overpraised ( especially in Hollywood ) and underrated . Visually rich musical , with creative ballet finale . Sometimes brilliant , always watchable , but overlong . Seven Oscars resulted in 1952 , for once deserved . The combination of Kelly 's dance and charisma , Gershwin 's music and Minneli 's direction makes this a movie that 's hugely enjoyable , even for those who do n't generally look for movies that are packed with dancing . It is both comfortable entertainment and eye-popping cinema , with its dream ballet acting as a showcase for what the movie musical can really do . One of the most imaginative musical confections turned out by Hollywood in years . 	The plot may be problematic , but such concerns are rendered superfluous by Gene Kelly and Leslie Caron 's star power , the Gershwins ' classic songs , and Vincente Minnelli 's colorful , sympathetic direction .
1210830-antichrist Troma and porn have flogged this sort of stuff for years - the kind of films that do n't get previewed by critics . To say that Antichrist is shocking would suggest that it 's effective . Functioning as the inverse of the Biblical creation story , Antichrist is the most unique and divisive 'horror ' film you are ever likely to see . What Lars is driving at is something completely bizarre , massively uncommercial and strangely perfect . Von Trier throws in every controversial topic and random bit of symbolism to the point where the film plays like a parable about the foolishness of reading into parables . Though it 's hard to deny the fierce purity of Gainsbourg 's performance , Antichrist plays like an incoherent mix of Gothic horror claptrap and Bergmanesque power struggle . I was more bored and puzzled than shattered and provoked . Von Trier says he was suffering from severe bouts of depression when he shot the movie . See Antichrist , and you 'll know the feeling . On the whole , I 'd rather be dragged to hell by Sam Raimi . You may be gripped by Antichrist 's depraved fairytale , or write it off as arthouse excrement . Either way , we guarantee you 'll be relieved as hell when it 's over . Self-loathing , mean , ugly and perfectly made , Antichrist is probably the best film ever that you 'd recommend to absolutely no one . 	Gruesome , explicit and highly controversial ; Lars Von Triers arthouse-horror , though beautifully shot , is no easy ride .
time-out-l-emploi-du-temps a confident , richly acted , emotionally devastating piece of work and 2002 's first great film Conveys the soul-shattering debilitations of unemployment and the spunk needed to survive while adrift in the universe . Time Out is deep and delicious , growing more and more intriguing with each passing scene . Skip work to see it at the first opportunity . Cantet takes his time , letting us become almost comfortable in Vincent 's presence , then shocking us with the audacity of his lies . A terrific but slow-moving film with a great performance by Recoing that is nearly matched by that of Viard . The movie 's only mistake is its final scene . After a perfect and ambiguous ending , the director tacks on a final scene in which everything is wrapped up too neatly . Full of bland hotels , highways , parking lots , with some glimpses of nature and family warmth , Time Out is a discreet moan of despair about entrapment in the maze of modern life . ... a quietly introspective portrait of the self-esteem of employment and the shame of losing a job ... It 's a subtle mood piece in which a man 's collapse is examined so rigorously that one almost hopes for a murder to come along and break the tension . 	A haunting psychological drama , Time Out takes a penetrating look at the angst of the modern worker .
30 minutes or less It 's all about the characters and - thankfully - they 're good ones . In fact , you 're glad they 're not Gone in Sixty Seconds . For what it is , 30 Minutes Or Less works . Puerile , irritating and insultingly phallocentric . A funny and fast-paced blast of silly energy , willfully dumb with a clever streak that keeps it afloat just long enough . With clever direction from Ruben Fleischer , leave it to the ensemble cast of Eisenberg , McBride , Ansari , Swardson , and scene stealer Pena to make '30 Minutes or Less ' one of the funniest films of 2011 . 30 Minutes Or Less has enough of both action and comedy to appeal to multiple demographics , and as far as crude comedies go it 's a fun watch . What can I say about a movie that made me want to take a shower and cleanse myself afterward ? 30 Minutes or Less is so shallow , self-satisfied , and downright repulsive that I hesitate to discuss it at all ... [ Fleischer ] packed this lean , mean comedy with a razor-sharp ensemble of some of the funniest actors around and set them loose in this high-on-concept , thin-on-plot movie . There 's too much cheese , but there are still enough amusing action beats and funny one-liners to let one say `` 30 Minutes or Less '' delivers , more or less on time . Balancing the film 's raunchy comedic tone with just the right amount of action and slap-to-the-face reality takes a deft hand . And that 's exactly what he does here . 	It 's sporadically funny and it benefits from a talented cast , but 30 Minutes or Less suffers from a disjointed narrative , and too often mistakes crude gags for true lowbrow humor .
something new [ It ] zeroes in on its target audience , primarily young , single African-American professional women . Given that there 's no nudity , no violence , and maybe only one word you ca n't say on TV , you probably need n't wait long for it to play on Lifetime . Something New insinuates a banal race-related subtext into its storyline . The script ... discusses frankly the pressures placed on black women to date within the race as well as their attitudes about expanding their options ... A diamond in the rough . Sanaa Hamri 's brisk , refreshingly understated romantic comedy Something New is the rare movie that delivers on its title 's promise . Something old is new again It is a warm , friendly movie , smooth and sensual in all the right ways ... What a wonderful surprise of a film . A very funny , well thought out romantic comedy , despite a few predictable stereotypes of race and class . Lathan and Baker have great chemistry as the typical opposites . This is a romantic comedy with a lot on its mind . 	Something New tackles serious questions about race and interracial relationships with genuine appeal and an alluring romance that develops as naturally as the plot .
kikis delivery service An endearing fantasy adventure from Japanese master-animator Hayao Miyazaki is given a quality Disney makeover in its English-language version . The animation is particularly fluid , especially in the scenes where Kiki flies over the city and along its streets . A fine , sincere piece of bittersweet delight . Marked by a delicious bittersweet quality as the story moves from parents losing a child to adolescence through to that child finding -- and losing -- first love in a strange city . A wonderful and enchanting animated film about a 13-year-old girl 's initiation into adulthood through her adventures in a strange city . Kiki remains one of Miyazaki 's most likeable heroes The characters are gently and warmly rendered , and a climactic action sequence involving an unmoored dirigible hints at the stately grandiosity of Miyazaki 's masterpiece Howl 's Moving Castle . The magic of Kiki is the girl 's sense of wonder in her new world , whether it 's her soaring flight among the migrating geese or a bicycle ride ... to see the dirigible . A terrific alternative to the diabetic 's nightmare that is most of Disney 's output , Kiki 's Delivery Service takes pride of place in Miyazaki 's exceptional body of work . One of the sweetest , most enticing animated features ever made , Kiki 's Delivery Service 's enchanting story and emotional core offer a perfect starting place for anyone keen to explore Hayao Miyazaki 's back catalogue . 	Kiki 's Delivery Service is a heartwarming , gorgeously-rendered tale of a young witch discovering her place in the world .
amour 2013 Haneke goes far beyond pushing emotional buttons into territory where our most visceral fears lurk . For Haneke , love is just another curious human trait to be dissected and used as a tool to disquiet his audience . All is presented in Haneke 's exacting style , one that I find controlling and a bit , well , smothering . A masterpiece . art-house fans who do venture forth into the grim but incredibly poignant Amour will be richly rewarded . Haneke 's lesser films can have a finger-wagging quality and this does not : it modulates from tonal disquiet to a profound and moving calm - towards silence , in fact . Unnerving in its own way - heartfelt and tender , but with an undercurrent of foreboding . Gains its power from grounding its characters ' pain in something humanistic . Rarely has this subject matter been depicted so realistically , so honestly . You always know where the story is heading but it 's still tough to watch . This beautifully-handled , deeply devastating work is all about the most human issue of all : we 're all headed for the scrap-heap . 	With towering performances and an unflinching script from Michael Haneke , Amour represents an honest , heartwrenching depiction of deep love and responsibility .
its all gone pete tong When Kaye tries to be funny , he 's odd ; when he tries to be sad , he 's boring ; and when he tries to be happy , he 's . . . just weird . Surges along on wry dialogue and energetic scenes , mixing spot-on parody with comments on the exploitation of the handicapped and the fads of the dance music industry . Less a faux documentary than a perversely amusing stab at the music world 's harsh realities . Noisy and difficult to watch , but worth it for Kaye 's performance . The magic of It 's All Gone Pete Tong is that it becomes seriously engaging even though it is filled with off the wall zany moments . Eventually wins you over with its warmth and offbeat sensibility . Somehow , [ it ] works-like the music at its heart , there is n't much depth , but the glittering surface is entertaining enough to while away the night . The movie leaves us with a broad , genuine smile , not the smirk born of so many mockumentaries . This is phony , absolutely , but the good feeling it leaves behind is plenty real . It 's the risks that pay off most handsomely in It 's All Gone Pete Tong , a curious mash-up of dance-culture mockumentary and searing biopic . Paul Kaye is superb as Wilde - he inhabits the character so completely that it 's actually quite disturbing . 	Part raucous mockumentary , part drama-filled biopic , It 's All Gone Pete Tong amuses and warms hearts with its touching , comic , and candid look at a musician faced with a career-ending handicap .
outlaw josey wales The Greatest Western Ever made . . . [ Eastwood 's ] trademark squint and scowl are brandished to full effect Eastwood 's constant re-sketching of and playful ambivalence towards Eastwood-as-Star is brilliantly illustrated in The Outlaw Josey Wales . Eastwood is such a taciturn and action-oriented performer that it 's easy to overlook the fact that he directs many of his movies -- and many of the best , most intelligent ones . It 's a powerful , revisionist , revenge Western with many unique touches . An epic journey to redemption , set against a riveting portrait of a battered country . Though the story is pat ... there 's pleasure to be had in the memorable one-liners , the irreverent humor ... and the Western action against the backdrop of frontier scenery . [ Blu-ray ] The truly impressive aspect of Eastwood 's Wales is just how broad a range of emotions the actor conveys without forsaking his legendary economy of gesture , or ranging beyond his ultra-macho monotone growl . A soggy attempt at a post-Civil War western epic . Demonstrated Eastwood 's ability to recreate his first starring role , as the mythic Man with No Name of the Italian Westerns , and to subtly undercut it through comedy and mockery . Fun western character study 	Recreating the essence of his iconic Man With No Name in a post-Civil War Western , director Clint Eastwood delivered the first of his great revisionist works of the genre .
day after tomorrow It may not be a great movie , or even an outstanding disaster popcorn flick - but its heart is in the right place The jaw-dropping special effects in the weather-gone- wild doomsday film The Day After Tomorrow sweep all else away -- including quibbles about bland characterization and dead-in-the-water dialogue . Beyond the often stunning visuals , I found most of the movie boring , worried it was n't going to end until at least the day after tomorrow . Recreates the global disaster ride of `` Independence Day , '' but falls short of its breadth and depth . Still fun . Content to parade out an endless , ever-wearying line of cliches , ludicrous plotting and dialogue , and paper-thin stock characters whom the viewer forms no relationship with . A disaster movie that cautions against global warming but delivers its real enjoyment in scenes of mass destruction . amazing imagery , moody score , ludicrous science , mentally challenged dialogue and eyeball-scratching acting They should be ashamed of themselves by squandering so much money on such a putrid piece of work . The Day After Tomorrow is n't just bad , it 's Godzilla bad , on a par with Emmerich 's previous cinematic low point . Chris Rock , Rob Schneider , Sean William Scott ... Any one of these performers could have provided Emmerich 's disaster with the comic relief it so desperately lacks . 	A ludicrous popcorn flick filled with clunky dialogues , but spectacular visuals save it from being a total disaster .
doubt Given the incendiary subject and powerful cast , Doubt could have been explosive , but ends up merely solid . Riveting and unforgettable , this intense drama really pulls you in and holds you with a terrific script and four unforgettable Oscar-worthy performances . Doubt offers up the crackling pleasures of performance and a narrative that snaps shut like a mousetrap . It 's the movie equivalent of a rousing night at the theater . Hoffman can do no wrong as he delivers yet again an exquisite portrayal against the formidable Streep ; their verbal exchanges sent a shiver up my spine Leaves little doubt about its search for tolerance and morality in the real world . In adapting his own play to the screen , John Patrick Shanley makes all the right moves , from expanding what was once a four-character cast into a full classroom and letting us actually get to know the boys as characters . A clutch of fine performances helps to silence any reservations you might have about the screen version of Doubt . Worth seeing . The acting is out of the park but the script leaves you doubting how good it is . Streep 's holy woman is a beast in a habit of the very accurate throwback variety , and she will put the fear of God in you . 	Doubt succeeds on the strength of its top-notch cast , who successfully guide the film through the occasional narrative lull .
spring breakers 2013 I could n't get past the feeling that this was basically the director 's softcore material masquerading as a feature film Korine gives Spring Breakers a remarkable energy but then trips it up with a repeated leit motif that feels inauthentic and overwrought . There are very few movies I regret having wasted my time on or are completely disgusted by . `` Spring Breakers '' is the definition of disgusting . The characters had no substance and the storyline had nothing to offer . Bikinis . Boobs . Bongs . Booze . Blasphemy . Bullets . Bloodshed . Bad bitches . Spring Breakers is the rawest ( and perhaps greatest ) movie about spring break ever . Populated with characters who seem to have no interior life..In his own oblique way , Korine offers commentary about just how empty that world is . ... it is n't so much a movie about freedom or rule-breaking as it is about every generation 's conformity to overwhelming pressure , about how human behavior is learned from repeated exposure to really dumb , low-level stuff ... ... grindhouse with pretensions of being arch Spring break 4eva ! Starts out like a salacious , rump-centric and blithely bare-breasted hip-hop video and ends up in the realm of scary and inspired trash . This is n't perfect , but it 's a crazy interesting movie to watch . 	Spring Breakers blends stinging social commentary with bikini cheesecake and a bravura James Franco performance .
1093641-hurricane The story , which is fairly faithfully told , is an engrossing one . Without Denzel Washington , The Hurricane would just be another contrived prison-drama , whether or not it actually happened . Epic in nearly every way , The Hurricane has the power to blow you away . Too often The Hurricane falls prey to creeping Hollywoodisms . a glowing depiction of the resilience of humanity that extends beyond skin color or political affirmation . Certainly not lacking in raw power . I think Denzel 's acting was exceptional , but his acting was n't enough to save this movie . A story which needed to be told . An expertly crafted , deeply moving film . The story never radiates much beyond the corruption of Carter 's lifelong enemy , Paterson detective Vincent Della Pesca . 	Thanks in large part to one of Denzel Washington 's most powerful on-screen performances , The Hurricane is a moving , inspirational sports drama , even if it takes few risks in telling its story .
ghost ship As a candidate for scary-movie honors , this one has n't a ghost of a chance . Ghost Ship is produced with a certain level of restraint by Joel Silver and Robert Zemeckis , with a script credited to Mark Hanlon and John Pogue that draws upon many familiar sources and suffers only mildly from Narrative Deficit Disorder . This creaking vessel of a movie ca n't spice a routine story with genuine horror . Contains a spooky ambiance from start to almost-finish . Aside from an occasional , half-hearted 'boo ! ' moment , there 's nothing scary about this movie . A dumb movie with dumb characters doing dumb things and you have to be really dumb not to see where this is going . It 's surprisingly good , spooky , fun , and stylish . The story is nothing to write home ( or you ) about , but the really good stuff is the material that was cribbed from other movies , namely The Shining . As Bluebeard might say , Ghost Ship is Yo-Ho-Horrendous . Aside from its jarring opening sequence -- imagine The Love Boat crossed with The Texas Chain Saw Massacre -- Ghost Ship is a fairly rote ghoulish tale . 	With a plot as creaky as the boat , Ghost Ship fails to deliver the scares .
philadelphia The story is timely and powerful , and the performances of Hanks and Washington assure that the characters will not immediately vanish into obscurity . Manages to be humorous and moving without being too preachy or heavy-handed . Wearing its heart on its sleeves , this well-intentioned but soft and compromised AIDS drama may nonetheless perform the same function that Paltoon or Schindler 's List have : Change public opinion about an urgent problem . `` Philadelphia '' mostly succeeds in being forceful , impassioned and moving , sometimes even rising to the full range of emotion that its subject warrants . But too often , even at its most assertive , it works in safely predictable ways . Phildelphia is a good idea , just not a particularly good film . Safe and apolitical it may be , but Philadelphia succeeds as a deeply affecting humanist drama . This AIDS courtroom drama is so pumped full of nitrous oxide , you could get your teeth drilled on it . It 's less like a film by Demme than the best of Frank Capra . It is not just canny , corny and blatantly patriotic , but compassionate , compelling and emotionally devastating . Conveys the hornet 's nest of ignorance , prejudice , half-truths and devastating lies connected with AIDS . Arguably , the horror of death from Aids has been sanitized for popular consumption , but nevertheless it is a brave and commendable effort . 	Philadelphia indulges in some unfortunate clichs in its quest to impart a meaningful message , but its stellar cast and sensitive direction are more than enough to compensate .
1005199-dangerous liaisons Stephen Frears ' direction is superb -- the design and lighting evoke simultaneous worlds of privilege and squalor , and while the nature of day-to-day life in 18th century France becomes readily apparent , it never becomes distracting . Wicked and well-appointed , this is a deliriously sinful costume a drama . Probably the best adaptation of the celebrated novel you can find . If the very most basic plot is a little too much like some of those incompetently made French sex-romps that show up on late-night cable , everything else is first-rate in this production . Emotional cruelty through sexual manipulation is the rule of the game of this smooth transfer of Christopher Hampton 's witty play , with an all-American cast , headed by Glenn Close and Michelle Pfeiffer . The creepy plot still holds a certain fascination . Close , Malkovich e Pfeiffer aproveitam ao mximo seus fascinantes personagens e os dilogos afiados do roteiro de Hampton , mas o filme um pouco mais frio do que deveria . It 's like Masterpiece Theater ... but not boring ! A sombre , manipulative affair in which the decor is never allowed to usurp our interest . This incisive study of sex as an arena for manipulative power games takes too long to catch fire and suffers from a deficient central performance . 	Stylish , seductive , and clever , Stephen Frears ' adaptation is a wickedly entertaining exploration of sexual politics .
kramer vs kramer Benton 's direction must first be praised for his choice of actors and his collaboration with them . This excellent struggle of a dad to keep his son by his side is a pure classic , with Hoffman at his best . Kramer vs. Kramer is greatly enriched by its exceptional cast . Set up to make Hoffman seem like the good guy , and it 's so confident that we 'll root for him that it gets sloppy . Hugely popular on its initial release , this looks , in retrospect , like nothing much more than a glossy soap passed off as serious drama . It 's the old wash , but so well done that we can overlook Benton 's manipulations of our emotions and let our feelings flow . it remains one of the most compelling films of the decade , even if time has tarnished a bit of its sheen . Like a few other recent movies , it takes a serious look at problems faced in real people in real life -- family conflicts , personality problems , childrearing dilemmas . More controversial in 1979 than now , but still has some gut pucnhes . Benton 's Oscar-winning film , a middlebrow family melodrama , well acted by Dustin Hoffman and Meryl Streep , reflected the new positions and struggles of women in American society . 	The divorce subject is n't as shocking , but the film is still a thoughtful , well-acted drama that resists the urge to take sides or give easy answers .
cracks Although Green is the sort of actress you ca n't take your eyes off , her presence is not enough to keep this movie from becoming mired in a slow and predictable rut . A superbly made , emotionally engaging drama that 's worth seeing for the terrific performances . Even the star power of the lovely Ms Green ca n't help Cracks escape the melodramatic doldrums . Cracks only strays from the boarding school genre 's playbook when it 's entering questionable territory , making for a picture that 's easily forgettable except in its disappointments . While Scott 's movie has a consistent aura , it lacks a consistent tone . The atmosphere of suppressed erotic longing gives way to a barely contained hysteria , not always convincingly handled by the young cast . For much of Cracks ' first two-thirds , Scott and company avoid the obvious melodramatic beats and just let the story unfold , even as the narrative shifts its attention from character to character . Jordan Scott 's confident directorial debut is a faintly ridiculous , sexually overheated mixture . Jordan Scott 's debut film is essentially a picturesque , slow-motion montage of boarding school pastimes : diving practice , a midnight feast , parcels from home , low-level bitching . I kept hoping Dumbledore would pop in and liven things up . All of which is heavy-breathing fun until an ill-judged lapse into Lord of the Flies territory and a Jean Rhys-ian climax all but bury the message about the evils of repression . 	Atomospheric but not much else , Cracks is a formless film in search of compelling drama .
the guard 2011 As Cheadle drifts around a vaguely thought-through role , The Guard bets everything on Gleeson 's boyish twinkle -- and tends to overestimate its own raffish charm . [ VIDEO ] With a pinch of `` Trainspotting '' irreverence and a dose of `` Pulp Fiction '' social satire , debut director John Michael McDonagh cobbles together a lilting black comedy set in the Gaelic region of County Galway . Rudely funny and faintly melancholic ... screenwriter John Michael McDonagh 's directorial debut is a stylish lark whose many disparate elements somehow manage to go down as smoothly as Guinness . `` The Guard '' is a fish-out-of-water story , an upside-down Irish Western , a crime drama , a diabolically self-aware comedy and a marvelously acted character study . Assured and well-written , it may totter uncertainly in the third act but it 's a pleasure to listen to a script with such an ear for shocking insult and knowing offence . Gleeson is triumphant in this portrait of a complex man who is concurrently sensitive , boorish , brilliant , singular , and unforgettable . Impressively directed and sharply written , this is an engaging and frequently very funny comedy-thriller with a terrific central performance from Brendan Gleeson . The always-unbeatable Gleeson is on simply outstanding form , conjuring a character both dignified and ridiculous , heroic and hardly bothered . McDonagh 's pithy dialogue sparkles like pixie dust . And yes , everything sounds better in brogue . McDonagh takes what could be a hackneyed tale of mismatched buddy cops and spins it to blisteringly funny effect . 	A violent , crackerjack comedy with a strong Irish flavor and an emminently likable Brendan Gleeson in the main role .
welcome to the rileys The overload of soapsuds ( and the production 's excessive attention to on-location squalor ) at times overwhelms the earnest performances of the three very good lead actors ... A solid piece of filmmaking , built on an unfussy , honest script and three beautifully understated and brave performances . Welcome To The Rileys has its heart in the right place , but the drama falters as it tends towards the solemnly earnest . The film works because its stars make up a trifecta of terrific performers who overcome the clichs inherent in their characters . The kind of movie performers often hail as a `` labor of love . '' And audiences just find labored . `` Rileys '' is n't believable for a second , but it 's often watchable , thanks to its hardworking cast . Audiences tend to avoid Kristen Stewart 's non-Twilight movies like vampires fleeing daylight . Believe me , it 's their loss . Kristen Stewart ever runs out of `` Snow White '' sequels , this is what her post `` Twilight '' career should look like . Stewart 's idea of inhabiting this part seems to be to scowl a lot and let her hair go unwashed . The Twilight star does n't have the depth or emotional agility to go toe-to-toe with Gandolfini and Leo . If Welcome to the Rileys were a thicker-skinned movie -- if it were the movie it thinks it is -- so much of the outcome would n't be telegraphed the minute you read the premise . 	Despite earnest performances , Welcome to the Rileys can not escape its belabored over-sentimentality and sluggish delivery .
1074022-lone star It is the structure of the film , including the smooth-subtle pans , turning present to past and back to present , that really awe . ( published 7-19-96 ) One of several of writer-director John Sayles 's masterpieces -alongside such unforgettable films as `` City of Hope , '' `` Matewan '' and `` The Secret of Roan Inish '' - `` Lone Star '' is an absorbing neo-Western mystery told in a haunting magical realist tone . It is among the best films of the nineties and the best independent features ever made in the United States . Lone Star is intrinsically an aggregate of John Sayles ' prior films , politically and racially . A capacious drama about political , racial , and familial tensions and the changes sparked by memories in a southwest border community . Sayles ' latest never bores during its 21/4-hour unreeling . But neither does it soar , despite finessing a complex flashback narrative set in 1957 and present-day . Filmmaker John Sayles knows how to deliver the goods , and his latest ensemble effort , the complex , perceptive , character-driven melodrama `` Lone Star , '' is no exception . A near-perfect examination of small town Texas life , as seen through the prism of a decades-old murder mystery . [ A ] complex and rewarding new Texas murder mystery . Sayles has surrounded his hero with other , more interesting characters and has warmed Lone Star with the glow of a humanist optimism rare in contemporary movies . 	Smart and absorbing , Lone Star represents a career high point for writer-director John Sayles -- and '90s independent cinema in general .
thunderball The fourth , most commercially successful Bond to date , is known for its pre-credits sequences , underwater battles , and escalating number of violent deaths . Thunderball , the biggest , most lavish , and longest Bond film at that time , was the most popular of its day . Sean Connery 's fourth Bond film , Thunderball , slips from the peak of From Russia with Love and Goldfinger , but still provides plenty of thrills of the brand only 007 can provide . [ Blu-ray ] Even James Bond can miss his mark . Connery 's Bond was never better than this . ... the movie becomes bogged down in underwater adventures towards the end . Slightly bloated Bond , with too much technology for my taste and a climactic slaughter that 's a little too mindless to be much fun . It was still fun despite its shortcomings . A particularly energetic , jaunty Bond adventure , the kind that is just plain fun to watch , in a perfectly relaxed and undemanding register . It loosely maintains the series ' early wit , which may be solely attributed , perhaps , to ease with which Sean Connery inhabits the role of Bond . 	Lavishly rendered set pieces and Sean Connery 's enduring charm make Thunderball a big , fun adventure , even if it does n't quite measure up to the series ' previous heights .
young-americans Tonight better left to yesterday . Give the genially bawdy '80s nostalgia trip Take Me Home Tonight credit where it 's due : It 's got the music part down pat This 1980s-set comedy was shot in 2007 and has been sitting on the shelf ever since . The damn thing 's so old it 's almost retro twice over . Like a zippy lost treasure from the days of VHS and Duran Duran . ... an attempt at an unironic '80s movie from writers of 'That '70s Show ' that 's already dated itself , having been made all the way back in 2007 , and which more recalls 1998 's Jennifer Love Hewitt vehicle `` Ca n't Hardly Wait '' than anything from John Hughes . I still ca n't think of a reason why this could n't have been set in the present . Completely unoriginal , sure , but watchable and even likable . A reasonably watchable immersion in nostalgia . Eddie Money deserves better than this . Not the best , night ever , as the tagline proclaims , but a good time anyway . 	It has a charming sweetness about it , but Take Me Home Tonight is neither funny nor original enough to live up to the comedies it evokes .
when in rome Duhamel throws around his raffish , real-guy charm , and Bell works a springy cynicism that When in Rome eagerly tries to strip away . But regardless of where its stars want to take it , all roads here lead to blandness and inanity . The problem is not the credulity-stretching script . Or even that much of the movie just is n't all that funny . The problem is that it thinks it 's freakin ' hilarious . Despite the considerable charms of stars Kristen Bell and Josh Duhamel , When in Rome does n't quite work , in either the love or laughter departments . The saving grace of the otherwise generic product is that Bell 's vivacity and Duhamel 's rakish charm allow the viewer to root for them , even if sometimes that rooting goes so far as to wish the script would serve the couple better than it does . Comedies require precision , and there 's none here ; instead , characters and scenes bash into each other with no evident purpose or logic . A witless realization of a promising supernatural premise suggests that a few people involved with the movie do n't have a particular talent for it . There 's so much wrong with David Diamond and David Weissman 's plot that , with a nod to the Guggenheim Museum 's spiral ramp , it 's hard to know where to begin . The screechy Bell has the delicate charm of a scraped blackboard ; the dully handsome Duhamel looks like a Land 's End catalog come to fitful life . Notice the ads do n't proudly proclaim , 'From the writers of Old Dogs ' The movie lacks invention and true magic in the worst way . 	A pair of young , attractive leads ca n't overcome When in Rome 's reliance on unfunny gags and threadbare rom-com clichs .
tourist there is no urgency , no smoldering passion and no excitement in The Tourist This woefully botched mystery-adventure-thriller-caper-romance-comedy , or whatever it was meant to be , is no fun at all . The tone is lightly comic , the dialogue flirty and amusing but the performances are unengaged . There 's no floor of reality , as there always was in a Hitchcock film , even his light confections . An incredibly dull low-key thriller barely driven by its two A-list leads . Jolie is gorgeous , but photographed in reverent profile , like a Roman coin . Depp is amusingly droll , but it turns out that `` mild '' for this great actor looks a lot like `` sleepy . '' Venice is pretty alright , but like its namesake ( or , for that matter , like a kidney stone ) , The Tourist is just passing through . It 's actually rare for me to see a film that is such an utter failure on so many levels . ... somehow this lavish light thriller stumbles through the set pieces and bobbles the star chemistry . As for Depp , his character makes so little sense that he can hardly be blamed for blinking his way through the movie with an expression of blank-faced puzzlement that recalls Dan Quayle in the 1988 vice-presidential debate . one of the oddest star vehicles to come out of the Hollywood dream factory in some time ... Depp and Jolie know exactly what they are doing . Jolie has never been more ludicrously Barbie-Doll/Sophia Loren glamorous 	The scenery and the stars are undeniably beautiful , but they ca n't make up for The Tourist 's slow , muddled plot , or the lack of chemistry between Johnny Depp and Angelina Jolie .
1100197-under suspicion It 's never as good as it should be , with occasional moments of brilliance overshadowed by the gimmicky direction of Stephen Hopkins . Gloomily fascinating , forcefully compelling . Though flawed and not nearly as electrifying as the material promises , the project still squeaks by thanks to taut direction and solid acting . Gene Hackman and Morgan Freeman ca n't save `` Whodunit ? '' from becoming `` Who cares ? '' A psychological thriller about the masks people wear and the games they play . ... at nearly two hours , it 's just too much of a good thing . Not even the high-caliber talents of Gene Hackman and Morgan Freeman can save this stagy , ridiculously over-baked psychological thriller . A worthy vehicle and tour de force for both Gene Hackman and Morgan Freeman . A powerhouse ... ..the acting will knock your socks off ! Ninety percent of this thriller is absolutely terrific ; but the 10 percent that fails is so troubling that it threatens to undermine all that is wonderful in the rest . 	Though Hackman and Freeman turn in solid performances , Under Suspicion moves at a plodding rate and has a disappointing ending .
diary of a wimpy kid For all its ridiculousness , its enthusiastic comic excess , and its fart/booger/gross-out jokes , Diary Of A Wimpy Kid 's heart is firmly in the right place . A very forgettable and easily missed comedy ... The film retains much of the original humour , some of it well executed . It 's reasonably faithful to the spirit of the books , probably because Kinney is the executive producer , but it 's by no means equal to his originals . Of course , he learns a Lesson about the error of his ways and learns something resembling humility , but by that point , after all he 's done , it 's too late . He 's just insufferable . An above-average and sometimes surprising kid movie based on the first of a popular series of cartoon books by Jeff Kinney . Gordon has an engaging screen presence that keeps us on his side . Delivers rare insight about kids growing up at different speeds ... If only the movie did n't so frequently turn reality into a literal and figurative cartoon . In an early self-referential monologue , Greg says , `` Who wants to see a movie about a kid who 's stuck in middle school with a bunch of morons ? '' Who indeed ? Largely avoids the gimmicky saccharine aftertaste that 's typical of the genre . Anyone older than the story 's resident Job , however , may not find much to write home about . It ai n't big , it ai n't clever , but it is ... quite funny . 	Unlike its bestselling source material , Diary of a Wimpy Kid fails to place a likable protagonist at the center of its middle-school humor -- and its underlying message is drowned out as a result .
dude wheres my car The majority of its gags fall woefully flat , and its brief , 83-minute running time often seems to drag for an eternity . Pic is transparently thin -- even at just 83 minutes , it feels desperately padded -- but fitfully amusing . This flick could quite possibly reduce your IQ by several points and bore you silly in the process . While dumb-guy comedy can be funny , it can also be just plain dumb . What ... you 're expecting Hamlet ? The flick never reaches its potential high . A painful , wearying slice of pure drivel . Brain-cell depleting comedy will appeal to kids . I was embarrassed that I enjoyed a movie so juvenile and stupid . But then I thought , 'Dude ! ' and I was OK . Just irredeemably bad . It 's not smart , it 's not original , it 's not charming , and it 's certainly not funny . 	The movie is n't funny , the plot is too thin , and the production values feel more like a TV sitcom than a movie .
o brother where art thou A dense , episodic , meandering tale that finds humor in every scene . The individual episodes are entertaining . A whimsical , lyrical journey through a national heritage suggested and fulfilled by the songs that hold it together . It makes you want to lift your voice and sing along , for the Coen Brothers have put it all together . Light , slight , stream-of-consciousness never looked so good to me . There 's a fundamental problem : a complete lack of humor . It 's a comedy with no laughs . It 's not up there with Lebowski , but its still a darn good tale . The thinly disguised contempt with which the Coens view redneck culture grows tiresome and , eventually , a bit mean . I had the sense of invention set adrift ; of a series of bright ideas wondering why they had all been invited to the same film . A handsome film , joyfully feting the movie fantasies of a bygone era . 	Though not as good as Coen brothers ' classics such as Blood Simple , the delightfully loopy O Brother , Where Art Thou ? is still a lot of fun .
1149472-skeleton key Dateline : August 5 , 2016 . A couple sits in their den , watching cable television . The intended surprises are n't all that surprising . The Skeleton Key conjures a spooky atmosphere steeped in the mystique of folk magic and medicine and suspicion of the deep South . Rowlands ' hilarious conviction added to her cracked Southern Belle keeps the movie consistently watchable . The voodoo lore is sketchy ( it ca n't hurt unbelievers , except when it can ) , the plot obviously little but build-up to the big reveal . A missed opportunity , but one with enough rewards along the way to make it worth seeing in spite of itself . Hoodoo ca n't hurt you if you do n't believe ; unfortunately , it ca n't scare you either . Kruger 's surprise ending fails to pack the kind of wallop to justify the momentary head-scratching , while there are too few moments leading up to the big reveal that will give audiences the kind of jolt they 're expecting . One of the most enjoyably inane movies of the season , this faux Southern Gothic offers an embarrassment of geek pleasures . The few scares present are cheaply delivered , and Kate Hudson continues her streak of mediocrity in below-mediocre movies . 	Thanks to its creaky and formulaic script , The Skeleton Key is more mumbo-jumbo than hoodoo and more dull than scary .
the little mermaid 1989 Disney returned to form with this animated musical classic , setting off a decade-long string of success for the studio 's children 's entertainment . Its exuberance and humor made animation hip again . The re-birth of the Disney musical . This was the rebirth of Disney in the modern era and due to superb songs , enduring humour and a touching plot it remains an animation classic . In adapting this animated film from Hans Christian Andersen 's sad and beautiful fairy tale , writers/directors John Musker and Ron Clements came up with a bright and perky movie . The Little Mermaid is the story of one packrat pre-tween princess whose undersea kingdom is only matched in depth by her remarkable sense of consumer-minded entitlement . A movie that 's so creative and so much fun it deserves comparison with the best Disney work of the past . The long-awaited proof that Disney animation could , in fact , return almost the quality and beauty of its Golden Age . Superb , entertaining animated musical has some scary stuff . Within the apparently necessary aesthetic and ideological limitations ( such as making the hero and heroine Americans surrounded by foreign servants a la Pinocchio ) , the animation manages to be fairly energetic . 	The Little Mermaid ushered in a new golden era for Disney animation with warm and charming hand-drawn characters and catchy musical sequences .
12 rounds A lunk-headed , brawling action movie with more muscle than brains and the kind of editing that feels like being repeatedly shot in the eyes with a staple gun . Renny Harlin 's 12 Rounds satisfies , on the most primitive level , the expectations for a second-rate action flick . There 's something strangely charming about films that are all artifice , explosions , and naked calculation . 12 Rounds is at least honest trash : It never pretends to be anything other than manic schlock . Adrenaline packed from beginning to end . While 12 Rounds is well above average for an action movie , it 's important not to get too carried away . This is , after all , a picture in which leading lady Ashley Scott is less appealing than her pet pug . Harlin makes good use of both the architecture of the city and of his formidably muscled leading man . But you will probably find yourself praying for this duel 's knock-out punch to arrive long before it actually does . With its wonderful post-Katrina NOLA setting and the standard stunt spectacle as only Harlin can deliver , 12 Rounds is actually quite good . It 's no masterpiece , but then again , few post-millennial adrenaline rushes have been . ... only tension , not suspense . With wrestling powerhouse WWE producing , chances are the statement , `` Guys , this just does n't make any sense , '' never came up during a script meeting . I ca n't fault 12 Rounds for being dumb . However , I will criticize 12 Rounds for being awful . Feels like it was written by high school students who have watched Die Hard a lot . 	Energetic but empty , 12 Rounds ' preposterous plot hurtles along at a rapid pace , but ca n't disguise the derivative script .
i love you man It 's a hilarious comedy made even more successful because so much of the satire seems fresh . A bit of a mess , but it 's funny more often than not , and at times it has real heart . If you can handle the language and gross gags , it could be good for a date or a guys ' night out . All praise to Hamburg , for making a modest meal of frat-comedy leftovers into something just delightful . Rudd and Segel excel with a smart script and Rashida Jones is very funny and authentic . Rudd creates a likably , uniquely quirky and hilariously adorkable character that would be unthinkable played by anyone else . Man crushes have been around since Jesus and Peter , Tom Hanks and the other dude from `` Bosom Buddies , '' and Tom Hanks and that mute volleyball Wilson from `` Castaway . '' But they 've never been hotter then here [ Paul ] Rudd , the most valuable player in many an Apatow supporting cast , is likable and funny and brings perfect pitch to the comedy of off-key awkwardness ... Unlike Apatow opuses , Hamburg knows not to overstay his welcome . I Love You , Man is a the biff-bam/thank-you-man of `` boys need boyfriends '' comedies . The chemistry between leading men Paul Rudd and Jason Segel is fantastic and the setup , although slightly ridiculous , yields a mother lode of comedic situations . The crude humor about masturbation , dog feces and projectile vomiting is disappointingly familiar , as are the character archetypes . 	I Love You , Man makes the most of its simple premise due to the heartfelt and hilarious performances of Paul Rudd and Jason Segel .
bull durham Costner is a natural as the dyed-in-the-wool ballplayer . His best lines are when he 's philosophizing , like on being an All-American male who hates anything by Susan Sontag . Writer/director Ron Shelton lobs juicy lines to players Kevin Costner , Susan Sarandon and Tim Robbins , and they all hit home . Shelton 's sharp sense of how these characters interact and improve each other ( both knowingly and unknowingly ) gives the film its impact Ron Shelton , who spent five years in the Baltimore Orioles farm system , has put together the snappiest , funniest and most poignant love letter to baseball ever written , though its ultimate moral deals with matters of the heart . Shelton , nominated for a best-original-screenplay Oscar , nails the details of minor-league ball visually as well , from the players ' superstitious pregame rituals to the dead , painted-green grass on the field . Shelton locates the tension and the humor between pitches , between ball games , between the sheets . It helps too that he has written the wittiest , busiest screenplay since Moonstruck , and that his three stars do their very best screen work . Ron Shelton , who wrote and directed the film , displays a knowledge of and affection for the national pastime . You can see it in the knowing detail he brings to even the minor characters . One of the best baseball films ever made . Kevin Costner , Tim Robbins and Susan Sarandon deliver compelling performances and offer depth to an alredy-terrific script . This witty , sharply observed tale belnds sports , comedy and romance and benefits immensely from the appealing performances by Kevin Costner , Susan Sarandon , and Tim Robbins . Smutty , terrific fun . 	Kevin Costner at his funniest and most charismatic in Bull Durham , a film that 's as wise about relationships as it is about minor league baseball .
priceless Sexy and funny and politically incorrect . A bit silly and predictable at times , but if you 've been a long time fan of Tautou , you 'll definitely want to see this . It might remind you of those early-'60s capers that starred a different Audrey -- Hepburn . There 's not much substance to `` Priceless , '' but what is there is effortlessly crafted and entertaining , and the locales in Nice and Monte Carlo are just spectacular . Priceless ends on a sweet , sentimental note . Yes , it 's unrealistic . But , hey , that 's why we go to the movies . They 're awful cute together , even if they 're awful people . A pleasant little piece of puffy French pastry reminiscent of many other pleasant little pieces of puffy French pastry . Hugely enjoyable , utterly charming French romcom with a terrific script and fantastic performances from its two leads . The appealing actors make up for the fact that they 're portraying prostitutes . They are putting their bodies up for sale , but saving their hearts for true love . After all , that 's the only thing that 's priceless . Worth seeing only for the mysterious adhesion process of Tautou 's dresses and for Gilles Henry 's glossy cinematography , which treats the luxurious Monte Carlo and Nice locations the way a tongue treats a lollipop . 	Priceless is a light , farcical rom-com that features sharp performances from Audrey Tautou and Gad Elmaleh .
squid and the whale Relentless in its condemnation of childish parenting and irresponsibility , Noah Baumbach 's uncomfortable The Squid and the Whale ranks as one of 2005 's best films by pulling no punches whatsoever . A simple but engrossing parable of a family set in half , and their children having to choose sides . It 's a movie filled with pain and frustration , but it 's also consistently funny , riding the fine line between tragic understanding and comic observation . The most impressive debut at Sundance was Noah Baumbach 's wickedly , heartbreakingly funny divorce drama , The Squid and the Whale . A time-capsule keeper . Baumbach captures the ways in which children takes sides in a war they ca n't even begin to comprehend . Baumbach still feels such word-inflicted wounds and draws on them to create some wrenching drama , speckled with touches of caustic comedy . The script is delightful , and the banter between the family members is fresh without seeming too scripted . Hooked me , but at a scant 75 minutes , did n't reel me in . Baumbach 's real achievement is his deft ability to balance the emotional brutality of joint custody with the natural humor of domestic life . ... Baumbach 's most emotionally potent and visually coherent film to date . 	This is a piercingly honest , acidly witty look at divorce and its impact on a family .
the grey 2012 It 's 'Man vs Wild Wolf ' in this suspenseful Alaskan survival film . Aside from Neeson 's top-caliber performance ... the movie 's got several excellent set pieces ... `` The Grey '' is a film that reminds us how fortunate we are to be sitting in a theater or at home on the couch and not suffering frostbite , hypoxia and being in the dastardly predicament of having giant wolf fangs ripping our innards inside out . Neeson makes a savagely deep impression in [ the ] role , perhaps because of the baggage he brings from his real life . I went into the fray and rode this intense , emotional ride with the characters . The Grey is hypnotic , terrifying , affective , poetic , and the best film that I 've seen this year . Effectively creepy . There are echoes of John Boorman 's iconic survival drama Deliverance ( 1972 ) as the men come to realise that nature has no pity , no feelings . The way the men interact is part of the drama , as hotheads and fools are revealed beneath the macho masks Relentlessly bleak , The Grey is a remarkable accomplishment in sustained dread . The Grey strives to be something different , turning what could have been a piece of mid-January claptrap into a far more satisfying experience . An intense , survivalist gore-fest . 	The Grey is an exciting tale of survival , populated with fleshed-out characters and a surprising philosophical agenda .
scary movie If the baddest of the Farrelly brothers ' bad-taste gags has you in stitches , then this is the movie for you . Ends up being less funny than its primary target , the already-self-satirizing Scream series . A parody of a parody , blurring the line between spoof and sequel to the point of pointlessness . Would it be asking too much if the hit-and-miss jokes could maybe nudge an inch beyond the obvious ? The film just uses the scattershot approach to parody : Throw constant jokes at the screen and some of them will stick . Most of the jokes are gross and offensive -- funny only to those with the most sophomoric taste . Mo ' funny , mo ' funny , mo ' funny . Scary Movie does n't seem to know exactly what it 's sending up . Make no mistake -- this one is lowbrow comedy all the way . It wants to rub your nose in nasty stuff . In fact , it wants to hose you down with it . 	Critics say Scary Movie overloads on crudity and grossness to get its laughs .
stick it I liked the passion with which the story argued its point about unfairness in gymnastic judging . But - and this is a big but - I did n't believe the plot twist that is used to make the point . Stick It is an enjoyable kids ' film with a tough group of gals who have an appreciation for gymnastics and claim that what they do is harder than being a Navy SEAL . Jeff Bridges has never been better than he is here as a coach who uses authority , patience and humor to motivate the gymnasts in his charge . Stay away from this clich-ridden script . ... Stay at home and watch gymnastics on ESPN instead . `` Stick It '' is a movie full of attitude , eye candy and action . It 's appropriate that `Stick It ' even has a title that sneers , for watching the movie is like spending an hour supervising detention . Should go where the sun do n't shine , all right , and that 's at the bottom of DVD bargain bins . Like most sports movies , Stick It has a message : Unless they 're equipped with loads of sass-back and a pile of band T-shirts that announce their hardcoreness , female gymnasts are really , really stupid . Halfway through , you 'll be ready to tell the people behind this malnourished rubbish exactly where they can stick it . A deliriously , defiantly unfocused headrush ... 	Director Jessica Bendinger is unable to transfer her winning Bring It On formula to the world of gymnastics , despite Missy Peregrym 's strong lead performance .
1142569-cursed The problem lies with Williamson 's script , which feels as if it has been torn from different places and glued back together like a ransom note . There are so many contemptuous things to say about this disastrous Teen Wolf/Lost Boys clone that I 'm not sure where to begin . You could say that PG-13-rated horror movies are , well , `` Cursed . '' Makes you long for the days when teenage werewolves were beady-eyed , slavering versions of hairy-palm jokes . A howlin ' good time ! Not what you 'd expect from the makers of the Scream movies , but it still has it moments ; not a lot of them , but a few . Decent , if uninspired . The special effects are particularly lame , and an insult to the proud werewolf tradition of An American Werewolf in London or the even better The Howling . This is `` Scream '' werewolf style ... All of this could have been loose , kitschy fun , but `` Cursed '' is too self-conscious to get off the ground . 	A predictable plot and cheesy special effects make Cursed a less-than-scary experience .
swat ... a case of a modest workmanlike film exceeding diminished expectations S.W.A.T . is mostly standard-issue muddle . If this movie was going to be sold in a grocery store , it would be in a plain white box with black letters that say , `` GENERIC SUMMER EXPLOSION MOVIE . '' The S.W.A.T . teamers exemplify what seems a set of ideal contradictions -- militaristic but individualistic , cartoonish but sort of relevant , elite but regular , dangerous but sensitive . Watching the wheels come off of S.W.A.T . is quite a sight . A lifeless trudge through squandered opportunities and god-awful dialogue . A film full of phony swagger and dialogue so awful you hope for once-distracting conversations to break out in the theatre around you . SWAT is better than Gigli , but so is most outpatient surgery . S.W.A.T . may well be the set up for a movie franchise . Let 's hope the producers understand why this one works . I think J Lo said it best only last week -- 'It 's turkey time . ' 	A competent , but routine police thriller .
blade ii For me the fight scenes are just passable . Take away everything that was original about BLADE , add some exploding vampires , bad acting , and vampire night at the WWF - you get BLADE II , a knock-off , rip-off waste of film , released to suck the blood ( and money ) out of audiences everywhere . No amount of blood and disintegrating vampire cadavers can obscure this movie 's lack of ideas . This film seems interested only in wowing us with stunts , makeup , special effects and plot twists that we see coming for miles . If you can keep your eyes open amid all the blood and gore , you 'll see Del Toro has brought unexpected gravity to Blade II . Superhero movies are only as good as the villains that populate them , and this one 's got a pistol in Reinhardt . Even when it drags , we are forced to reflect that its visual imagination is breathtaking If you are looking for any dialogue beyond 'geeyaghhh ... whump ... I trusted you with my men , my will , with my life ... greahhhhh ... smack whump crash greaaahhhhh , ' you might want to skip it . Between action , gunplay , fights , chases , special effects , and offensive one-liners , Blade II pleases on all levels . Unrelentingly gruesome , the movie is a giant pigout of violence and stage blood . It has no meaning beyond the thrills it delivers ; heck , it may even be morally reprehensible . But it sure is fun . 	Though Blade II offers more of what worked in the original , its plot and character development appear to have been left on the cutting room floor .
brady bunch movie I hate to admit it , but I laughed at the Brady Bunch Movie . I laughed a lot . The Brady Bunch Movie is -- to exhaust this string of metaphors -- pure junk food . But like most junk food , it sure tastes good . Wonder of wonders , Thomas and her colleagues have turned this mother lode of 1970s kitsch into a pretty tasty little comedy . [ Director Thomas ] drawn hilariously synthetic performances from a shrewdly cloned cast . The film establishes a bland , reassuring , comforting Brady reality - a certain muted tone that works just fine but needs , I think , a bleaker contrast from outside to fully exploit the humor . Campy , affectionate send-up of a classic TV show . This is enormous fun , one of the best TV adaptations to date , and guaranteed to provoke a nostalgic misty eye and mischevious grin in anybody who 's ever owned a crimplene tank top . It made me wistful not only for a piece of my youth , but also for an era when families were functional , communities seemed closer . The actors try hard , but the screenplay is n't solid enough to keep any of them consistently clever . Funnier than it deserves to be . 	Though lightweight and silly , The Brady Bunch Movie still charms as homage to the 70s sitcom .
paranormal activity I think it 's more fun and inventive than really frightening , but that 's not to say it does n't have a significant amount of creepy-crawly moments that are very , very effective . Paranormal Activity boasts some scary moments , sure , but the movie can not live up to its own hype . . . The sizzle of the marketing is impressive ; the steak of the actual movie , served bloody and rare and juicy , is even more so . Peli 's method of imbuing everyday objects -- a slightly ajar door , a swinging chandelier , a ( gulp ) strangely rumpled bedsheet -- with an atmosphere of ball-crawling dread is really something to see . It does n't let up . The promise is to scare you out of your wits . Does it work ? For me : no . To tell you the truth , I was bored , frustrated and nauseous from the terminally jerky hand-held camera Whoa nelly , this is about the most frightening movie I 've seen in a long time . If you know what 's coming , it might just kill the effect . That said , going in blind will almost guarantee a genuinely chilling horror movie experience that should be seen at the cinema . Fun , creepy , unpretentious little haunted house rides like these are so hard to come by these days that slight overpraise is understandable . It 'll take quite some time to recover before you can sleep soundly without wondering if you 're really alone in the room . Oren Peli in his feature debut has a few jolts in store , and the natural performances of the cast and the aura of reality provided by the video format keep the tension high . 	Using its low-budget effects and mockumentary method to great result , Paranormal Activity turns a simple haunted house story into 90 minutes of relentless suspense .
rock star O filme como um grande show de rock cujo ltimo nmero um sucesso do pagode : depois de pular durante 2 horas , voc sai frustrado por no ter sentido vontade de pedir bis . You do n't have to be a metalhead ... to give the funny , ultimately feel-good flick the headbanger 's 'devil horns ' gesture of approval . Just as it should be falling apart , its melodrama becomes more touching than ever , ultimately shaping a film about much more than any band and more poetic than any song on the radio . Very watchable , owing to a pair of strong performances from its two leads , but it is n't the great film it could have been . Generally plays itself out with the plodding , high-decibel predictability of a Steel Dragon ballad . If you do n't leave Rock Star wanting to do some head-banging and squealing at the top of your lungs , well , you can always pop in an old Air Supply cassette . Rock Star is n't OK junk or merely good junk ; it 's great junk . The weight of what might have been hangs heavily over the proceedings . The erratic , cliched and superficial plot that ca n't seem to figure out where it wants to go or what it wants to prove or explore . A must for any thirty-something male who used to play tennis racket guitar to tunes by Judas Priest , Scorpions , Iron Maiden , or the like . 	Like its title , Rock Star is rather generic , being not so much about the heavy metal scene than about rock cliches and formula .
gran torino Maybe it 's his no-nonsense style -- unaffected acting , matter-of-fact cinematography , the deft juggling of emotional opposites -- but Gran Torino seems to unfold effortlessly in the hands of a master . Gran Torino is most fun when it 's working on the level of performance art , and much of the time , it resembles an art school take on an insult comic 's one-man show . Ultimately , Gran Torino is not recommended for its moralizing or its scenery , but for Eastwood 's compelling performance . Like Woody Allen , Clint Eastwood has reached the point where his movies are better when he 's not in them . He never manages , though , to penetrate to his character 's much-touted depths , and it 's left to young non-professionals Vang and Her to infuse the action with a spry , casual liveliness that offsets the film 's rickety set-up and pacing . Who would have thought that Dirty Harry would become not only one of Hollywood 's most respected filmmakers but also one of its most compassionate humanists ? At 78 , Eastwood still commands the screen . Eastwood gives us a morbid take on righting wrongs in a world that lends no help to the victimized ... Attempts to alter Walt to fit Eastwood 's outsized legacy feel heavy-handed and add to the weird tonal shifts that hurt the movie as it lurches , finally , toward its solemn finale . Less a great film than a fascinating personal testament Gran Torino is a smorgasbord of Eastwood 's skills as filmmaker -- the good , the bad , and the ugly -- and how well you digest it will depend on your appetite . 	Though a minor entry in Eastwood 's body of work , Gran Torino is nevertheless a humorous , touching , and intriguing old-school parable .
life of david gale Like a comfy , handsome $ 12 sweater . On first wearing , it seems like a bargain . Pull just one string , and it swiftly unravels in your hands . Overwrought and over-directed , The Life of David Gale has ideas worth considering , but its largest group of advocates will be the already converted . Suffers from Parker 's same overindulgence in making points at the expense of making stories . Parker and screenwriter Charles Randolph throw plausibility to the wind at every turn , and every emotional moment feels contrived . Suspenseful but overworked death penalty thriller . The picture is neither flawless nor foolproof , but it 's smart and tight enough to keep audiences off-balance and entertained for the running length . Fails both as advocacy and entertainment . Spacey 's typically solid acting cancels out Winslet 's overwrought airhead character . ... a mundane and manipulative crime thriller that does n't have anything new to say ... Parker does n't know when to appropriately distribute or neutralize the tension of his toxic storyline in subtle , heartfelt strokes ... ludicrous and less-than-suspenseful . 	Instead of offering a convincing argument against the death penalty , this implausible , convoluted thriller pounds the viewer over the head with its message .
edtv Though thunder lost to `` The Truman Show '' , this screenplay still has real and punchy dialogue . Diverting but ultimately toothless and innocuous . Comic satire of reality TV ; lots of dysfunction , sexuality . A respectable , intelligent film , but one , to be sure , that prospers more while in the individual moments , rather than one that remains deeply ingrained in your long-term memory . A fresh , insightful , and often times hilarious film about the follies of instant celebrity . It 's a slightly lackluster comedy that wants to have something to say , but never gets around to saying it . Or worse , says it , and the audience replies , 'And -- ? ' Matthew McConaughey ... leverages his immense charm to keep this broad comedy -- highly reminiscent of the far superior Truman Show -- airborne . Its screenplay veers in highly questionable directions before reaching a mean-spirited climax that outweighs Ron Howard 's workmanlike filmmaking and the contributions of a star-powered cast . EdTV is n't bad enough to get angry about , but it 's a mundane and toothless satire . ... a fine premise that 's utilized to progressively underwhelming effect ... 	If it 's not as ambitious as The Truman Show in satirizing the voyeuristic nature of television , EdTV is an amiable , witty comedy with fine performances from Matthew McConaughey and Woody Harrelson .
1010695-invisible man One of my favorites , Claude Rains , in the title role . He 's only visible at the end , so gaining the audience 's favor must have been a challenge using only his voice and plenty of bandages . The invisibility formula drives him insane . Excellent film . James Whale 's 1933 film plays more like a British folk comedy than a horror movie ; it 's full of the same deft character twists that made his Bride of Frankenstein a classic . One of the all time fun pictures , with enough ingredients in it to please a wide variety of film fans . This pitch black comedy in horror-movie clothing is certainly one of Whale 's best films , and one of his most accomplished , making it one of the great classics in any genre . The strangest character yet created by the screen [ from the novel by H.G . Wells ] roams through The Invisible Man . A wonderful , insightful , goofy , bizarre look at a strange case . One of the best of the horror stories to reach the screen , this picture rates high because of originality of theme , excellent acting , expert camerawork and direction , plus an atmosphere of brooding mystery . In his first cinema role , which must have been easy for him to play since it amounts to very little more than an offstage noise , Claude Rains gives an alarming performance , almost as frightening when he is present as when he is not . This is an entertaining movie and even a memorable one , but without a stronger story , I would n't refer to it as a masterpiece . Remains memorable for its tension , its special effects and the talkie debut of Claude Rains . 	James Whale 's classic The Invisible Man features still-sharp special effects , loads of tension , a goofy sense of humor , and a memorable debut from Claude Rains .
bridge on the river kwai For what it is , it ai n't bad , though it serves mainly as an illustration of the ancient quandary of revisionist moviemakers : if all you do is systematically invert cliches , you simply end up creating new ones . In my opinion , it is one of the two best films to emerge from a very strong decade of cinema . Epic of WWII honor and sacrifice gone haywire . From sky to ground in two shots , and it already feels like we 've traversed a great distance , with two and a half hours of skillful , suspenseful WWII adventure to go . Did Lean ever make a bad film ? One of the most rousing and inspiring war films , this is also a psychological battle of wills . The intensity between Hayakawa and Guinness is captivating . One of THE great action sagas , and at the top of David Lean 's form . It 's certainly weathered well thanks to its novel and ingenious approach to presenting multiple perspective of the Second World War . [ Lean ] somehow managed a very pleasing balance . A gripping drama , expertly put together and handled with skill in all departments . 	This complex war epic asks hard questions , resists easy answers , and boasts career-defining work from star Alec Guinness and director David Lean .
agent cody banks 2 destination london Although Muniz still has his Tiger Beat looks , his performance is worse than phoned in -- it 's text messaged . Zzzzzzzzzzz , [ drool ] zzzzzzzz . Malcolm loyalists are too sophisticated for this simple script , and fans of the spy genre have so many better options . There 's no way your own children deserve something as lifeless and hollow as Agent Cody Banks 2 . Unless they 're misbehaving really bad , I guess . Vapid , banal , humourless , witless ; a cynical cash-grab . Agent Cody Banks : Destination Forgotten Screen Character ( hopefully ! ) I cried 'Please , Lord , make it stop ' at about the 90-minute mark -- long after I was numbed into a vegetative state by reheated spy cliches and sub-sophomoric bathroom jokes . London 's calling for CIA Agent Cody Banks ( Frankie Muniz ) , but I wish it were his mom telling him to go to his room . ... tedious , forgettable and wholly unnecessary . Does the unforgivable , condescending to its audience as if the kids would n't get it unless everything was laid out on a plate . 	Young kids may find this London adventure fun , but older kids may find it too simplistic .
a pigeon sat on a branch reflecting on existence Sweden 's Roy Andersson offers a singular take on the human condition in this triumphant trilogy-closer . A Pigeon Sat on a Branch Reflecting on Existence is a beautifully shot , artfully funny , and oddly poignant view of humanity from Roy Andersson . Absurdist ? Somewhat . Close to pointlessly so . A comedy ? Not even by Swedish standards . The spirits of Samuel Beckett and Spike Milligan waltz through this beige-green purgatory , a series of arresting static-camera vignettes , pasty of face , deadpan of composition . The kitchen-sink realism is actually set-bound and masks sneaky absurdist tendencies . Still life ? Hardly . Its strangeness and repetition may turn some away , but on both a technical and thematic level , it is a work to be celebrated . Throughout [ the film ] , Andersson melds the humorous and horrifying side effects of a dehumanizing political system and reveals the power of national pride to force a collective forgetting at the cost of the soul of its people . Grimly enjoyable as ever , though somewhat less flamboyantly spectacular than its predecessors , Pigeon offers the usual collection of vignettes , some stand-alone , others narratively connected , and a few prefaced by announcements of their theme . By abandoning conventional story elements and exaggerating the mundane and tedious , Andersson is able to highlight the humanity of his characters and the strangeness of their lives . It confirms the Roy Andersson universe as one of near-fossilized similitude , in which any effort or movement is disruptive , revealing new cracks in the set illusion of order . 	Expertly assembled and indelibly original , A Pigeon Sat on a Branch concludes writer-director Roy Andersson 's Living trilogy in style .
adventures of priscilla queen of the desert Bernadette -- formerly Ralph -- turns out to be an excellent role for Stamp . The best things in this transsexual comedy-melodrama are Lizzy Gardiner and Tim Chappel 's colorful costumes , which deservedly won the Oscar , and Terrence Stamp 's performance , snubbed by the Academy . The casting of the film was a stroke of genius . It 's too bad that the requirements of plotting require movies like this to crank up the event count , when actually what works is just the daily minutiae of Bernadette 's life . It 's often very funny , looks great and is played to perfection . This is a road movie with a difference . In this roaringly comic and powerfully affecting road movie , Terence Stamp gives one of the year 's best performances . Refreshing and fun . The year 's one clear candidate for future cult status . For sheer camp value , Priscilla is a lot of fun , even if it has next to nothing to say . 	While its premise is ripe for comedy -- and it certainly delivers its fair share of laughs -- Priscilla is also a surprisingly tender and thoughtful road movie with some outstanding performances .
death defying acts Death Defying Acts , a fictionalized love story involving Harry Houdini , could be a sweet little discovery if only the relationship at the core of it were more convincing . As a slight and visually arresting little `` what if ? '' tale , one that centers on a pop culture icon who still fascinates us today , Death Defying Acts is a perfectly passable period piece . It 's all a touch undercooked and dull . So corny and old-fashioned that only diehard romantics are likely to consider it magical . Director Gillian Armstrong is more attentive to decor than the story , which never seems in a hurry to get anyplace in particular and concludes with a thud . excepting experimental films , plot is a key reason we watch movies . Without an interesting one , an hour and a half of competent filmmaking becomes about an hour and 25 minutes of boredom . Much of the story is smoke and mirrors in terms of fact , but this is pitched more at romance fans than Houdini addicts . Broadly enjoyable , lovely to look at , with fine work from its lasses - but it 's less than the sum of its parts . Death Defying Acts is a hugely enjoyable , impressively directed drama with superb performances and an emotionally engaging script . Terrific final scene too . Highly recommended . Perhaps the film is n't a grandiose statement of splintered lives , but it 's an agreeable drama , best when it stays close to the decomposing heart of a professional liar . 	Pretty but dull , with unconvincing turns from Zeta-Jones and Pearce . If you want a period magician movie , seek out The Prestige or The Illusionist instead .
lauberge espagnole Cedric Klapisch takes the old cliches of culture clash ... and turns them into a vision of the new European Union as communal household . If you can get around the main character , this nominee for multiple Cesars ( the French equivalent of the Oscar ) is indeed fun and engaging , rich in both insight and grotesque conceits . Think of L'Auberge Espagnole , a French comedy-drama about a gang of international exchange students living together in Barcelona , as Friends -- the International Edition . Imagine an average episode of Friends with subtitles , more sex and less laughs . [ Klapisch ] lets Xavier 's year abroad unfold with the right wandering touch of pleasure , nostalgia , and wistful exploration . As he did in When the Cat 's Away , Klapisch demonstrates an understanding for the way young people caught between the demands of adulthood and their lingering adolescence behave . [ Klapisch ] forces us to notice the ordinary details we ordinarily sleepwalk through . It 's a rarity , a comedy about young adults that does not laugh at their inexperience , and remains accessible even to old fogies . It features four of the most erotically and emotionally delectable female performances I have seen in one film this year . You 've seen this before , and you 'll see it again , but L'Auberge Espagnole is a pleasant enough way to spend a couple of hours . 	This multicultural comedy captures the chaos and excitement of being young .
charlottes web [ The film ] relies heavily on the voices , though the actors are sometimes miscast ( Julia Roberts as the spider ) or chosen more for their on-screen personas than their pipes ( Steve Buscemi as the rat ) . There 's enough of White 's original spirit that survives the Hollywoodization to keep the little girls happy . This is only the second time in my life I cried over a spider . The first time was when I was a child and I accidentally stepped on a pet spider I had captured . This is an exceptional family movie . Uma adaptao burocrtica e sem vida . Charlotte 's Web ends on a grace note that should keep you feeling whimsical for many days after . The film stays mostly true to the values , tenets and lessons that White espoused and , as a period piece of a simpler time of Americana , it looks great as well . Breathe easy : Gary Winick 's new , live-action Charlotte 's Web pic does not screw up one of the seminal works of American children 's literature . A lackluster live-action remake of E.B . White 's classic children 's tale . There are pleasures to be had from a family film that does n't scamper from one action sequence to the next . Its the talking pig movie for the next generation ! 	Kids will be entertained by the straightforward plot and cute animals , and adults will be charmed by how quiet and humble the production is , a fine translation of E.B . White 's genteel prose .
the tale of the princess kaguya The animation in `` The Tale of the Princess Kaguya '' is created using cutting-edge 21st-century tools - pen , pencil , a splash from a watercolor brush . It has a delicacy and a hand-crafted feel that you wo n't find in the latest DreamWorks or Pixar blockbuster . Instead of brash primary colours , Takahata uses a pale and watery palette . A technically brilliant animated interpretation of Japanese oldest recorded legend . ... a wonderful amalgamation of beautiful images , often breath-taking , and a charming and sweetly told story . With its delicate lines , understated palette and exquisite water color backgrounds , Isao Takahata 's The Tale of Princess Kaguya ranks among the loveliest animated features of recent years . A real treat for animation fans , although its meditative pace may test the patience of younger viewers . Thhis dreamlike folk tale is highlighted by exquisite watercolor-and-ink-wash artwork that offers soul-satisfying relief from the garish pandemonium of most animated films . An allegory about the irrecoverable joys of childhood , it may make parents hug their kids now . The Tale of the Princess Kaguya 's great success is not only in the museum-quality animation , but in turning the princess fable onto its ear . One can only hope Ghibli maintains a creative standard as high as his . 	Boasting narrative depth , frank honesty , and exquisite visual beauty , The Tale of the Princess Kaguya is a modern animated treasure with timeless appeal .
spy hard The jokes come in sporadic volleys rather than the steady machine-gun pace of The Naked Gun and Airplane ! , and , with a few exceptions , they are less truly aimed . Sporadically funny , but never more than a sting of crude gags . You wo n't laugh hard at Spy Hard . And that 's not because the jokes are n't funny . Most of them are n't even jokes . Yet another Leslie Nielson movie parody , targeted this time at James Bond pictures and their many spinoffs . The movie will be of interest only to Nielsen 's most devoted fans and to those who wonder why Nicollette Sheridan never made more movies , or more swimsuit calendars . Most of the humor falls flatter than Steve Forbes ' flat tax pitch . Nielsen , with his expert deadpan and sense of comic timing , creates the illusion of humor -- for about 15 minutes . [ A ] haphazardly executed send-up . This movie unfortunately wastes a perfectly promising idea -- satirizing James Bond films along with any other pop-culture celluloid phenomenon that crosses the filmmakers ' minds . Filled to the bursting point with witless , sub-Mad magazine movie parodies , pointless cameos by a seemingly endless parade of has-beens , and once-hysterical , now stale jokes lifted straight from Airplane ! and the original Naked Gun ... 	Leslie Nielsen 's comic gifts are undisputed , but Spy Hard 's lazy script and slapdash direction fail to take advantage of them .
tomorrow never dies The 18th James Bond movie features the usual saturation bombardment . Bond is just a glorified stuntman now ; he 's lost his license to thrill . If Connery was Sexy Bond and George Lazenby was One-Shot Bond and Roger Moore was Geezer Bond and Timothy Dalton was Bored Bond , then Brosnan should be Posh Bond . The filmmakers appear to have started with a series of stunts ... and built a script around them . Even the evil henchman is badly picked : Ricky Jay is a lovable magician , not a hard-nosed killer . It sounds like a ridiculous complaint , but there 's actually too much action here . If this film had been made ten years ago , it might have been more of an achievement . But in this age of computer-generated special effects , some excitement is lost . Get thee behind me , satanic cynic , for the path to true entertainment of tomorrow lies here . This film will be difficult to top when Brosnan steps into Bond 's tuxedo again for his contractual third turn as the world 's favorite spy . Efficient action , gleaming product placement and , in Michelle Yeoh , a convincing foil for Bond . 	A competent , if sometimes by-the-numbers entry to the 007 franchise , Tomorrow Never Dies may not boast the most original plot but its action sequences are genuinely thrilling .
melinda and melinda Melinda and Melinda does have its faults , but it 's plainly the work of a master filmmaker . The best Woody Allen film in years . The comic version of Melinda 's story is only mildly less somber than the tragic version . Allen 's most complex and satisfying film in a long while - and possibly it 's his most cohesive serious work since Crimes and Misdemeanors . It has great performances , snappy one-liners and a likeably tricksy structure , all wrapped up in an affirmative antidote to life 's daunting complexities . Welcome back , Woody . The eclectic supporting cast keeps things interesting for a little while ... but the novelty soon wears off , and we 're left with nothing more than an unusually dull Allen flick . Melinda and Melinda is perhaps best thought of as an offering to the memories of Ernst Lubitsch and George S. Kaufman , half-forgotten culture heroes whose examples of crisp sophistication deserve to be kept alive for future generations . Half works , and the half that does n't work is n't so bad that it 's not worth sitting through to see a Woody Allen comedy starring Will Ferrell . The dialogue sparkles , the cast is terrific , and both stories are entertaining , even if the premise is flawed . Here the Allen surrogate is Will Ferrell playing a failed actor , all flailing gestures and squinty eyes . Whenever he 's onscreen , the film comes alive . Otherwise , not so . 	Woody Allen 's uneven Melinda and Melinda fails to find neither comedy nor pathos in what seems like a rehash of his previous themes .
blindsight Watching it , you feel almost as much a winner as the kids themselves . Blindsight is an undeniably engrossing , heart-tugging documentary , rightfully departing at critical intervals from heroics to simply extol the wonders of the spirit . Going beyond a chronicle of disabled ( blind ) children doing heroic things like climbing mountains , Walker 's resonant docu juxtaposes different value systems of East vs. West , Europe Vs. America , Arduous Process vs. Goal Attainment . Blindsight is a film that not only every skeptical teen should be forced to swallow in the high school repertoire but also anyone in need of self-reflection in their lives should go and see . An important , heart-soaring record of a group of incredibly brave people doing something almost everyone would tell them is impossible . Walker 's documentary hails from the inspirational school of filmmaking , and graduates with honours . Walker 's ending is fudged both in terms of the narrative and the issues , and she seems to come down , a little feebly , on the `` heartwarming '' side of things . But what an amazing , and bizarre , story . The underdog sports movie and follow-your-dreams narrative gets an interesting makeover in Blindsight . Uplifting but never mawkish , and gorgeously shot . You take them with you as you leave the theater , knowing that your bad day probably is n't as rough as you first thought and inspiring the realization that anyone can climb the peaks of their own lives . It 's a must-see . 	A powerful glimpse of the possibilities for transcendence in straightforward documentary filmmaking -- and extreme physical disability .
the wicker man 1973 One of best horror films ever made . A boon for film geeks the world over . Stick with this creepy 1973 masterpiece and you 'll be rewarded by a memorable , haunting ending that follows an almost unbearably tense build-up . The tension occasionally goes slack , but hardly anything surpasses that clifftop finale for freakish terror . A mordant study of theological anxiety Part folk musical , part occult chiller , and quite mad . You ca n't help smiling at the audacity of it all and shivering a little at the feelbad ending . The ultimate British cult classic -- a unique film that straddles genres , features Christopher Lee in a dress and builds toward one of cinema 's most memorable climaxes . They deliberately cast horror icons to help them break the mold ... if you keep in mind its original context , it can be a very interesting film . The Wicker Man 's genre-bending , thematic daring , and tortuous history have made it the U.K. 's definitive cult movie . 	This intelligent horror film is subtle in its thrills and chills , with an ending that is both shocking and truly memorable .
charlies angels full throttle It is the summer movie as dumb fun , with an emphasis on both words . like its predecessor , exists primarily to get luscious private detectives Cameron Diaz , Drew Barrymore and Lucy Liu in one tight spot -- and one tight outfit -- after another . ... wears its attention-deficit disorder as a badge of honor . Watching Full Throttle is like being pummeled for two hours with a feather duster . It leaves no scars , but you do feel the pain . The girls are essentially Barbie dolls who do stunts . A nearly two-hour exercise in chaotic action and coarse , annoyingly coy sexuality . [ The Angels ' ] spunky charms are the main -- nay , the only -- reason to see this hyperactive action-adventure farce . Gleefully airheaded and slick . Appears to be an experiment to discover exactly how incoherent a movie can be before even girls in bikinis ... are not enough to keep the audience 's attention . I bet John August , Cormac Wibberly and Marianne Wibberly could n't begin to explain what happens in the script they wrote . Sure , there 's plenty of po-mo frolicking to '80s hits , and references are dropped to every cinematic nugget from Flashdance to Cape Fear . But the drawn-out action sequences show barely a trace of wit . 	Eye candy for those who do n't require a movie to have a plot or for it to make sense .
godfather still a riveting piece of work , a true masterpiece of the American cinema The Godfather films remain so powerful , so ubiquitous , because in the Corleones we see the American Dream -- and in turn , ourselves . Simply great , if not the greatest ! While there have been changes from the novel , the film is both compelling and powerful . If you care for film at all , do yourself the great favor of getting out to that theater and immersing yourself in a genuine American classic . All of the filmic arts - design , cinematography , editing , music - come together to forge what is , by any measure , one of the great movies of all time . One of the central American movies of the last 25 years , and one of very few to succed as both popular entertainment and high art . In its blending of new depth with an old genre , it becomes that rarity , a mass entertainment that is also great movie art . Coppola offers a rich and layered look at family and does so with an incredible cast and a meticulous amount of detail . The performances Coppola got out of these young actors are extraordinary . We understand their every glance , their every thought ... 	One of Hollywood 's greatest critical and commercial successes , The Godfather gets everything right ; not only did the movie transcend expectations , it established new benchmarks for American cinema .
do the right thing Are you covering your soft parts ? Spike Lee is about to drag you into a sizzling kitchen called `` Do the Right Thing . '' The fact that a filmmaker as gifted as Lee has yet to top the movie says a lot about its power . If you see only one movie in this season of blockbusters , make it Do the Right Thing . spike lee 's masterpiece A towering achievement in American cinema , Spike Lee 's Do the Right Thing takes a hard look at a community in crisis . [ Blu-ray ] Lee 's theatrical piece speaks the Truth , Ruth . And it just ai n't simple . Its characters are often abrasive ; its language is consistently foul ; and it takes a complicated view of race-related violence . Yet it 's an attractive and even beguiling film in many ways , too , with large resources of humor and intelligence . A pulsating homage to life on New York 's streets , achieved thanks to Lee 's sleepless eye , but a passionate-yet-dignified study of racism , too . The movie has a tone and a perspective of its own . But all too often , the tone is tiresome and the perspective banal . You ca n't afford not to see this modern masterpiece . 	Smart , vibrant , and urgent without being didactic , Do the Right Thing is one of Spike Lee 's most fully realized efforts -- and one of the most important films of the 1980s .
nightingale 2013 Gray is one of the most deliberate of American filmmakers , capable of turning an underground beating by the cops into a scene of two-toned aesthetic beauty , and never letting a frame go by with deep , moody meaning . I ca n't think of another actor today who could vitalize the character of a virtuous , wronged woman as vividly and unsentimentally as Marion Cotillard does in The Immigrant . Gray is the most underappreciated of this country 's major filmmakers ; his movies distill a century 's worth of American feature film-a little late silent cinema here , a little New Hollywood there-into a distinctly personal style . Few contemporary filmmakers have James Gray 's ability or ambition to match exquisite craft with emotionally complex storytelling . The huddled masses will probably be waiting for this one 's arrival in the land of video on demand ... James Gray 's film sticks in your head both for the images it creates , and for those triggered in myth memory , of the immigrant experience in America . Some of the film scenes fall flat , but , after all , the American Dream is of a future in which one never loses hope . https : //www.commonsensemedia.org/movie-reviews/the-immigrant One of `` The Immigrant 's '' primary assets is its texture : a rich fabric of sights and sounds that evoke the look and feel of New York 's underbelly in the early 20th century . The Immigrant 's handsome Blu-Ray transfer should be welcomed with open arms , even if there 's little meat on the bone here for fans of special features . 	Beautiful visuals , James Gray 's confident direction , and a powerful performance from Marion Cotillard combine to make The Immigrant a richly rewarding period drama .
pleasantville Exploding with originality and verve , Pleasantville is an absolute delight . A winsome and witty comedy/drama ! Ingeniously conceived and impressively executed , `` Pleasantville '' is a provocative , complex and surprisingly anti-nostalgic parable wrapped in the beguiling guise of a commercial high-concept comedy . The movie has less biting originality than The Truman Show , but it proves that director Ross retains screenwriter Ross 's flair for exploring real-life issues through divertingly far-fetched plots . Funny for about half an hour , Pleasantville thereafter becomes an increasingly lugubrious , ultimately exasperating mix of technological wonder and ideological idiocy . Though Ross works in some heavy-handed strokes , his portrait of stodgy Eisenhower America dazzles with some of the loveliest imagery of any 1990s film . A rarity ! Overcomes its moralising and occasional pomposity with magical photographic effects . A pretty nice place to visit for a while . But to be honest , a two-hour trip there seems like too much of a good thing . A life-affirming film that throws itself into fairy-tale territory only to tell you that there is no such thing as a fairy-tale . 	Filled with lighthearted humor , timely social commentary , and dazzling visuals , Pleasantville is an artful blend of subversive satire and well-executed Hollywood formula .
night at the roxbury One thin joke stretched over 80-some tiring minutes . relentlessly silly Depois de um tempo , parei de prestar ateno na histria ( hein ? ) e me concentrei na boa trilha sonora . Alm disso , o filme curto o bastante para no se tornar intolervel . The director , John Fortenberry , whose background is in television , has probably done the best that can be done with characters who were never meant to speak . Basically a longer version of its poster . It would take far better writing than Kattan , Ferrell and Steve Koren can muster to make it less than an ordeal . The Butabi brothers are uber-losers , and therein lies the joke . Between spoofs on nightclubs , personal trainers and hitting on hotties , the brothers bob their heads to the beat and make complete fools of themselves . Shun this witless showcase for the Saturday Night Live double act of Ferrell and Kattan . A comedic groaner . Anyone who is more than momentarily diverted by this motion picture has such a radically different idea from me of what constitutes 'entertainment ' that we may never agree on anything . 	Has the same problems as the worst SNL movies : one-note characters and plots unreasonably stretched to feature length runtime .
judge dredd Feh ! ! ! ! ! Sly sucked . The comic book sucked worse . All in all a better-than-average adaptation of a way-above-average comic . For a good laugh , check it out ; for good action , look elsewhere . A fairly loud , pointless exercise in future-cop heroics , with Sylvester Stallone as a one-man cop , jury and judge who gets set up in order to .. oh , like you ca n't figure it out . This is just another video game without the interaction , a movie that seems to have no purpose other than simple-minded thrills and spills . A diffuse , uninvolving star vehicle aimed at saving Stallone 's box-office viability manages to display most of his weaknesses . '90 's Stallone action movie guilty of nonstop violence . Um personagem sem carisma em uma histria sem sentido . Good action , but mumbled dialog and shallow charcterizations . The director does n't provide much kinetic movie-making pleasure but he knows enough to jam the screen with clamor . It 's not excitement , exactly . It 's simulated excitement . 	Judge Dredd wants to be both a legitimate violent action flick and a parody of one , but director Danny Cannon fails to find the necessary balance to make it work .
old school For most of its relatively brisk 91 minutes , Old School taps a keg of rich , frothy humor . This escapist male fantasy benefits from better-than-average casting and some amusing moments of improv by Ferrell and Vaughn . A cheery , unapologetically goofy comedy about mid-life regression , minus the gross-out gags . And for that , at least , we can all be thankful . Funny , funny , funny ! ! ! It 's insipid , and Will Ferrell streaks through it naked . No , it 's not an SNL skit ... it 's the latest college frat film , and it 's marginally ok at best . My throat was sore from laughing so hard Enroll at your own risk . Sloppily made , frustratingly inconsistent , purposely lowbrow , blatantly derivative and never once enlightening in even the slightest way , Old School is also undeniably howl-out-loud funny at times . A raunchy and raucous , if decidedly inane , fantasy of college glory days revisited . Certainly not as bad or painful to sit through as last year 's Van Wilder , but still rather flat comedically and certainly dramatically . 	While not consistently funny , the movie does have its moments .
leap year 2010 Erin Go Aagh ! The Irish legend concerning leap-year proposals gets summarily tossed onto a peat fire , which is where the movie itself belongs . The film is packed with spontaneous acts of Irish country dancing and twinkly locals beaming over their Guinness . Ireland should sue . Forgettable all around . Leap Year is a romantic comedy that never rises above the predictable or inoffensive ; it 's pretty to look at , but it offers little nourishment for the head or heart . Actor Amy Adams is in serious danger of overexposure , so it 's a pleasure to report that her latest vehicle delays that inevitability by playing directly to Ms. Adams ' strengths and letting her weaknesses run free like an Irish pig . Fortunately , Adams can carry even a weaker script than this ( and has ) ... Leap Year takes few chances . Of course , opposites will attract ( it does n't hurt that both are smokin ' hotties , I have a feeling Anna would n't be falling for Ray Romano in similar circumstances ) . The movie does n't give them one single moment that does n't come out of the romantic comedy rulebook . Amy Adams is a sentient ball of cuteness , but not even she nor her appealing co-star Matthew Goode can keep this gimmicky contraption afloat . 	Amy Adams is as appealing as ever , but her charms are n't enough to keep Leap Year from succumbing to an overabundance of clichs and an unfunny script .
1000875-amityville horror full review in Greek A middling horror entry from 1979 that 's a masterpiece when compared to the dreadful 2005 remake . really more about the deep-seated , primal fear of family members inflicting violence on each other than it is about ghosts and demonic spirits . An astonishing number of fumbled frissons ... certainly looks a whole lot better when compared to its sequels . A pack of flies swarm all over Father Delaney -- then again , given Rod Steiger 's howling performance as the priest , it could just be that the flies like reeking ham . All hype , no substance . Dry , dumb and periodically somewhat dull ... but still packs enough of a haunted house whallop to warrant a skeptical visit . Moronic . It was popular at the box-office , but was unremarkable as a horror film 	Dull and disappointing , the best that can be said for The Amityville Horror is that it set a low bar for its many sequels and remakes .
persepolis Quite simply one of the best book adaptations and animated films to have come out of Europe in recent years . The black-and-white animation wo n't dazzle your eyes , but everything else about Marjane Satrapi and Vincent Paronnaud 's adaptation of Satrapi 's graphic comic book series Persepolis will hold you in its thrall . Has a simple , pleasant charm of a character trying to adjust like a kid on the first day of school , though it 's ultimately too episodic to escape that appearance of simplicity . There is no denying the boldness of Persepolis , both in design and in moral complaint , but there must surely be moments , in Marjane 's life as in ours , that cry out for cross-hatching and the grown-up grayness of doubt . Persepolis is a true original in the eclectic world of animation , one that 's full of fascinating contradictions . Satrapi 's life story is exhilarating and heartbreaking ; filtering political events through her youthful experience of them creates a very different , very human picture of Iran . It 's striking how much emotion Satrapi is able to convey through these blocky drawings , which are simple but powerfully chosen . Done primarily in simple black and white animation Persepolis 's elegance lay in this simplicity combined with the deft complexity of [ Marjane ] Satrapi 's very moving story . There 's a good lesson here about Iranian history but it 's not exactly gripping material . Amounts pretty much to a `` so what ? '' Persepolis is passionate , comically poignant and universally familiar in ways that expose the penguins and rodents that are its fellow Oscar nominees for best animated feature as being commercial and conventional . 	Persepolis is an emotionally powerful , dramatically enthralling autobiographical gem , and the film 's simple black-and-white images are effective and bold .
yi yi Edward Yang 's glorious Yi Yi , at three hours , requires patience . But its rewards are tremendous . A sublimely moving and aesthetically rigorous experience overflowing with universally recognizable situations and characters . A heartfelt and involving family drama to which even the most subtitle-wary moviegoer could relate . Opening with a wedding fracas and closing with a funeral , Yi Yi puts the trials of three generations delicately on view . That rare film that has found the right rhythm and density to sustain its three-hour length . Intricately nuanced , lovingly crafted ... and decidedly wry in tone . The film is underpinned by Nien-Jen Wu 's magnificent performance . Looks at one middle-class family in transition -- and does so with such a kind and probing eye that we all see our lives reflected through Yang 's lens . One of the best films of 2000 ... .This wonderfully conceived and executed film reveals the subtle ways people reach out for each other . As rich and complex as a terrific novel , and you 'll fall into the story just like you fall into a good book . 	In its depiction of one family , Yi Yi accurately and expertly captures the themes and details , as well as the beauty , of everyday life .
spy kids A treasure . The visual effects do n't really hold up 10 years later , but Spy Kids is still a charming , energetic , inventive kids ' flick that balances its goofier side with its a sense of dramatic maturity . Robert Rodriguez brings the same whiplash-inducing pace and ferocious energy that drove DESPERADO and FROM DUSK TILL DAWN to this gentler , but no less high-octane , escapade One of those rare breedsa live-action family film that relies on intelligence and adventure to tell its story . A preposterous collection of sight gags and lame special effects that does n't amount to much of anything . This year 's most unlikely-and most successful-exhilarating family-type entertainment . ... the nonstop action and terrifically imaginative production should make `` Spy Kids '' a winner with kids . Adults will enjoy it as well . Full of stuff that 's just plain cool to anyone who can think like an 5-to-10-year-old . What ever happened to Robert Rodriguez ? Spy Kids achieves the one thing Hollywood struggles to do in live action : It 's a family film that 's cool . 	A kinetic and fun movie that 's sure to thrill children of all ages .
me and earl and the dying girl This thing is just so wonderful , I almost do n't want to say anything about it , so everyone can just go in and have the beautiful revelation that I did . If every teen movie were as buoyant , stylish and aware of history as Me And Earl , the cultural landscape would feel a lot smarter . In some ways , Me and Earl is The Fault in Our Stars for film critics who love Werner Herzog and Once Upon a Time in the West . Nearly every drop of human experience in it is mediated by movies , not in some Godardian assault on false Hollywood narratives but to flatter an audience too self-consciously hip to swallow this story straight . This rousing adaptation of Jesse Andrews ' novel is destined not only to connect with young audiences in a big way , but to endure as a touchstone for its generation . The fine performances of Mann and Cyler fuel this little indie , and could turn it into one of those minor gems that give the movies a much-needed shot in the arm . I do n't normally like to cast aspersions on people over differences of opinion , but this one 's engineered to suck up so hard at easy-lay critics that I swear you little boys can do better . Try harder . Please . The dying girl deserves more than you . Affecting without being overly sentimental , humorous without being inappropriately comedic , and quirky without being self-indulgent . Give into it , go with it and let it take you where it leads you -- -and do n't caught up in thinking that you already know where that will be . Touching , funny and wise . And only occasionally cloying . 	Beautifully scripted and perfectly cast , Me & Earl & the Dying Girl is a coming-of-age movie with uncommon charm and insight .
peeping-tom Stripped of its color and some excellent photography plus imaginative direction by Michael Powell , the plot itself would have emerged as a shoddy yarn . This abundantly creepy , and always controversial , British movie never goes out of style . Contains the most lurid use of Technicolor ever . If anything deserves the `` dark masterpiece '' tag , this does : a brilliant satirical insight into the neurotic , pornographic element in the act of filming , more relevant than ever in the age of reality television and CCTV . Peeping Tom 's rediscovery , I fear , tells us more about fads in film criticism than it does about art . One of the most chilling serial killer films ever made . An audacious , clinical , and ruthlessly frank thriller . Fear , as it turns out , is the most frightening thing in the world , and Peeping Tom makes us feel it palpably as few films have been able to do . Its frank depiction of violence and somewhat sadistic delivery understandably upset the stodgy British public , who were used to prettier fare from Powell . There 's a constantly gorgeous surface -- a handsome hero , lots of bright Technicolor -- and a constant moral rot at play underneath . 	Peeping Tom is a chilling , methodical look at the psychology of a killer , and a classic work of voyeuristic cinema .
mulholland dr It 's surreal , erotic , creepy , frustrating , absorbing , transporting and torturous in the way only a Lynch film can be . I do not attempt to grasp what the root of meaning is behind Lynch 's shameless manipulation , but watching it unfold is an amazing experience in itself . We go to Mulholland Dr. not merely for explanations , but for the euphoric sense that there is something beyond our understanding affecting us as we view it . The best autocritique of cinema as a medium that has yet been made . Watts burns brightly as the star-struck Midwesterner . I love this movie , and ca n't wait to have epiphanies about it . Another strange and twisted film from the bizarre mind of David Lynch . Go for the performances and the photography , but do n't talk about the film over coffee afterwards - you could still be ordering triple espressos the next morning . A baffling but always intriguing failure , the movie gets more confusing , not less , as the story unfolds . A wonderfully Lynchian dive into the dream and the reality of Hollywood , moviemaking , acting and love . 	David Lynch 's dreamlike and mysterious Mulholland Drive is a twisty neo-noir with an unconventional structure that features a mesmirizing performance from Naomi Watts as a woman on the dark fringes of Hollywood .
the normal heart The collaboration between Murphy and Kramer seemed like a natural from the moment it was announced , and now we have the proof of that sensible decision -- in all its incendiary , heart-wrenching magnificence . ( Larry ) Kramer 's screenplay powerfully retains Ned 's anger but the scenes where Ned exhibits it tend to get repetitive . The film boasts great performances though and lovely directorial touches that make it well worth the nearly 30 year wait . The Normal Heart will drive any viewer with a heart at all to tears . If you can get past the director 's tics and tricks , there are some bravura scenes from Mantello , Roberts and Ruffalo that are worth the price of admission . It 's an impressive , relevant , and moving ensemble drama that I ca n't recommend enough . Written , directed and acted with a passion that radiates off the screen , The Normal Heart is drama at its most incendiary , a blunt instrument that is also poetic and profound . Watch at your own risk , but to not watch the film - or more importantly , learn from it - is an even higher risk . After the third or fourth time Ned starts screaming about the same injustices , it becomes all too easy to tune him out . It 's movies like The Normal Heart , fuelled by the performances within it , that make you want to learn more and provide perspective on one of the bleakest times for the gay community . That , and increase Kleenex sales at Costco . Buoyed by A-list star power , The Normal Heart beats erratically for more than two hours , yet delivers a gut punch in its climax . 	Thanks to Emmy-worthy performances from a reputable cast , The Normal Heart is not only a powerful , heartbreaking drama , but also a vital document of events leading up to and through the early AIDS crisis .
interview with the vampire What everyone missed , while hanging on to Tom 's every `` mon Dieu , '' was Jordan 's ability to turn a novel with a flaccid film premise into something worth watching . Holds plenty of interest , even for those who find Anne Rice 's gothic cult novels unreadable . It 's a glorified Jean Rollin vampire film that places sexual emphasis on blood sucking and vampirism ... Neil Jordan seems to make one good film after another on the theme of the sub-culture of people who live outside normal society . As his films go , this is not one of his best efforts . ... something for everyone : heterosexuality , homosexuality , eroticism , murder , mayhem , pedophilia , necrophilia , nudity , gore . A night stalker yearns to maintain his human emotions of love , grief and guilt . A borderline effort . Passionately anticipated and much ballyhooed , the film , alas , is little more than a foppish , fang de siecle costume drama . Its pulse barely registers . It 's about seduction , and either you succumb to its inky entrapments or you resist . When its mojo was working , I was happy to be had . ... the movie 's aggressively overlong running time often does threaten to negate its positive attributes ... 	Despite lacking some of the book 's subtler shadings , and suffering from some clumsy casting , Interview with a Vampire benefits from Neil Jordan 's atmospheric direction and a surfeit of gothic thrills .
shining The Shining met the fate of several other Stanley Kubrick films when it came out ; most viewers did not like it , so they rejected it . Most importantly , they did not understand it in any way which allowed them to deal with it constructively . The result may not quite match Kubrick 's greatest films , but it is enthralling and hypnotic - a brilliant , ambitious attempt to shoot a horror film without the Gothic trappings . Among a handful of the scariest movies ever made . It 's all in the build-up : Kubrick sets the scene for the horror with meticulous care . Weird as it sounds , this creepy thriller works . One of the late 20th century 's finest tales of the supernatural and a justly famous classic . Chilling , majestic piece of cinematic fright . Deeply scary and strange . If Stanley Kubrick 's The Shining is not the best haunted house movie ever made , it is certainly among the most intricately constructed . Not Kubrick 's greatest work ( let 's be honest : entire sections of this film make no sense at all ) , but hey , it 's creepy as hell . 	Though it deviates from Stephen King 's novel , Stanley Kubrick 's The Shining is a chilling , often baroque journey into madness -- exemplified by an unforgettable turn from Jack Nicholson
bon voyage 2004 Charms with its insouciant attitude toward the impending calamity surrounding the characters , but its froth may wear thin for some viewers . Just what the doctor ordered for older moviegoers longing for a return to the golden age of film . A genre piece full of great actors and fabulous scenery , a rousing , full-blooded entertainment that uses serious themes and events mostly for pure pleasure . This Hitchcock like French film taking place during World War II buildup is excellent . It 's just plain exhausting to watch the admirably game cast members running around like headless chickens in chic period clothes , surrendering their dignity to the task of navigating the plot 's frenetic contrivances . [ S ] pot-on in its bygone charm , its sharp wit , its snappy bumbling ... A rousing , well-crafted romp packed with ingenuity , duplicity , close calls and heroic gestures , Bon Voyage is true to its title . One of the great pleasures of Bon Voyage is its evocation of a precise time and place in history . A little too much pointless running around coupled with the underdevelopment of several key characters results in a movie that 's never more than mildly diverting . The dense plotting and a comic insensitivity just this side of Hogan 's Heroes leave Bon Voyage an enervating experience . 	It 's froth , but stylish and giddily entertaining .
war tapes When it 's over , you 're not any closer to understanding the war . What stays with you are three sobering and complicated examples of its effect on the troops . See The War Tapes . Maybe this picture can be worth a thousand lives . More powerful and effective than any Hollywood war movie could ever hope to be . The direct-cinema authenticity that a soldier 's eye gives to this largely street-fought war ... lends The War Tapes its primary strength . What 's here speaks for itself , and what it says is often surprising and deeply unsettling , regardless of one 's political leanings . Mini-cams mounted on dashboards , gun turrets or helmets capture , with unsettling immediacy , the campaign 's sudden explosions , chaotic ambushes and 24/7 sense of uncertainty . A gripping , sometimes dramatic , sometimes annoying collection of jerky images and subjective impressions . The film , a tour-of-duty diary by three digital-video toting National Guardsmen , offers the first real look at what it 's like to be shot at on a daily basis in Fallujah in pursuit of a goal no one can articulate . The film succeeds because of its refreshingly low-key emotional approach and its refusal to impose character arcs or political agendas on its subjects ' footage . The apolitical film serves us well for its candor . 	Candid , eye-opening footage gives viewers a close-up -- and educational -- look at the experiences of American soldiers in Iraq , a viewpoint not normally seen .
blue is the warmest color This is absolute cinema , absolute characterization , absolute storytelling , controlled and compassionate , and bursting with empathy and life ... this is really the kind of film we come to Cannes in hopes of discovering . The performances are nothing less than astonishing . This film is nearly three hours long , but it held my interest throughout because I cared about these characters and what happens to them . This is a strong film which has won some awards and will probably win some more . An intimate epic in every sense of the term , its every subtle emotional turn rendered widescreen on [ Adle ] Exarchopoulos 's exquisitely expressive face . An emotional and engrossing experience told in extreme close-up . It 's less an important movie than just a really good one , very deeply emotional , well-acted , and filled with human nuance . The film would have benefited from more editing , but it is nevertheless a compelling , troubling and touching study of adolescence and same-sex relationships . One of the year 's best films . How can a movie this good feel so wrong ? It may be overshadowed by its controversial and graphic sex scenes , but the passion runs far beyond the sheets in this explosive and revelation-filled coming of age story that explores sexuality , desire , love and commitment 	Raw , honest , powerfully acted , and deliciously intense , Blue Is the Warmest Color offers some of modern cinema 's most elegantly composed , emotionally absorbing drama .
400 blows This bleak ending , with Antoine turning to stare into the camera , is among the most famous shots in cinema history , and for good reason . This should be required viewing for today 's droves of would-be memoirsts in film or any other medium , and otherwise is simply a must for anybody who likes great movies . it informs everything we know today about watching movies . A rich and fascinating look at youth and its fleeting joys ... Forget my curmudgeonly attitude and see it -- again , or for the first time -- for yourself . Truffaut brought a fresh and piercingly honest portrayal of troubled youth to the screen . In many ways , Antonie Doinel is not only the cinematic embodiment of Truffaut , but also the French New Wave as a whole . Vibrant , visually exciting and emotionally resonant . Truffaut 's brilliant debut , one of the seminal works of the New Wave , is a captivating autobiographical chronicle of a troubled youth . It 's streetwise stuff , shot in a vigorous on-the-hoof style , but also full of joy , both in its blissfully comic moments and in Doinel 's telling passion for moviegoing . Childhood 's frustrations for Truffaut are never far from its lilting delights 	A seminal French New Wave film that offers an honest , sympathetic , and wholly heartbreaking observation of adolescence without trite nostalgia .
elsker dig for evigt Director Susanne Bier and co-writer Anders Thomas Jensen draw attention away from the famous Dogme gimmick ... and pull us into a surprisingly powerful emotional snafu . This feels so real that it takes our breath away -- it 's moving , profoundly involving and deeply meaningful . A powerfully moving drama that 's well worth seeing . The gritty , low-budget realism approach of the Dogme manifesto gives immediacy and edge to the raw emotions Bier and her cast uncover . Reminds me of the best of Bergman 's chamber dramas . Nerves are exposed , hearts opened and emotions bared , all under Bier 's X-ray cameras . The acting is so natural that you 'll swear the actors are cheating by not acting at all . The strong script and performances , combined with the spartan Dogme restrictions , bring out all the best that `` Open Hearts '' has to offer . Open Hearts is a heart-wrenching soap opera that even The Young and the Restless ca n't compete with . A movie that really works . Arguably , the dogma movement has found its most accomplished expression to date in Open hearts . 	Pulsing with honesty , this film lays bare the rawness of human emotion with a story made all the more believable thanks to its gritty , low-budget approach .
grown ups The whole movie is just a bunch of middle-aged guys hanging out and mocking each other . Then they pee on things . Although the movie rambles , and none of the jokes are anywhere near as funny as Sandler and his co-stars imagine , `` Grown Ups '' is a mediocre comedy with a generous heart . An excruciating mess of gross-out humor , eww-inspiring vulgarity , and soppy sentimentality . An Adam Sandler movie with a heart ? Almost ! This is no Punch Drunk Love or Spanglish but waft aside the flatulence and there is an adult film crying to grow up . If you 've ever wondered what The Big Chill would be like with old Saturday Night Live castmates -- well , why would you ever have done that ? Watching `` Grown Ups '' is like be forced to endure the vacation videos taken by a bunch of rich , self-satisfied schmucks clowning around and being asked to pay $ 10 for the privilege -- Like being sat on by all your least favourite school bullies . No plot and all punch lines , like a timing-impaired comic who sets up his one-liners with one-liners . At least there 's the lovely Salma Hayek and Maria Bello to give the cockamamie proceedings some grown-up elegance . During `` Grown Ups , '' I felt a deep sadness every time the audience laughed and the sounds of their chuckles turned into the ringing of the cash register , and all I thought was a grim , simple truth : This , America , is why we ca n't have nice things . 	Grown Ups ' cast of comedy vets is amiable , but they 're let down by flat direction and the scattershot , lowbrow humor of a stunted script .
sixth day ... you end up playing match-the-sequence from one of Ahnold 's previous pictures or picking out the product placements for cars , beer , and other sundry items . ... filled with a lot of movement and noise but little actual excitement or suspense ... a great-looking , quasi sci-fi movie with not a lot actually going on . Packed with enervating action sequences and inexplicable scripting decisions . ... 6th Day can not match Schwzrzenegger 's best action efforts , and the harder it tries , the more it sabotages its own best interests ... A decent movie for teens , if they can endure it . A romping enough experience . But to really blast off , it should have been both creepier and kookier . ... Simply another fiery , loud shoot-em-up with overblown villains , over-the-top heroics , and lapses in simple logic . Essentially Schwarzenegger Lite , definitely a new flavor -- but it still gets the job done . For lack of a better word , it 's pleasing . Some of the action scenes here are among the best of the season . Is n't much different from Arnold 's other leaden movies . 	This offering from Arnold Schwarzenegger contains an intriguing , disturbing premise , but the film 's execution is too routine and formulaic to make good use of it .
marvins room Keaton is given a rare opportunity here to remind us that she 's not simply a fine comedienne , and she 's marvelous . What begins as an apparently simple tale of sibling interaction reveals a complex web of pain , guilt , and uncertainty . Marvin 's Room seems to exist primarily to road-test every one of your emotions . An emotionally fulfilling film with wonderful , uplifting elements . For me this film leaned heavily to the hackneyed , but admittedly there were those in the audience who were touched by the film 's message . Based on a play by Scott McPherson 's who died of AIDS , it 's impossible to watch the well-acted film ( particularly Diane Keaton , who should get an Oscar nod ) without thinking of its themees : the various approaches to love and the strength of family bonds Zany and emotionally-affecting story about death , aging parents , reconciliation , and the healing power of selfless love . Its an actor's/writer 's movie , but , oh , what acting and writing There is a core of substance in Marvin 's Room , and persuasive acting to back it up . Which makes it a special pity that the filmmakers did n't trust viewers to have the necessary intelligence to figure that out for themselves . Slow , depressing family drama finely acted 	Marvin 's Room rises above the pack of dysfunctional family dramas thanks to an impeccable cast that includes Meryl Streep , Diane Keaton , and Leonardo DiCaprio .
zero dark thirty A slam-bang action picture . It 's a film about revenge and its immense costs , different from a common vigilante story because of the target , not the arc . A clinical , single-minded revenge film that prioritizes technique over morality in the war on terrorism . As a hugely compressed account of the Osama bin Laden manhunt , as a compelling but troubling look at `` black ops '' tradecraft , and as a riveting portrait of a fiercely determined woman working in a male-dominated sphere , the film is a resounding success . A tense , dramatic and lean film , which is a surprising thing to say about a movie with a near-three-hour running time . There 's an emotional detachment to the film that undercuts its potency . Zero Dark Thirty is more technically proficient than emotionally involving . The second half of the film IS the film . Remarkable and engaging piece of filmmaking considering the outcome of the story is well known . A sign of the times we live in and the processes put in place to wrangle the people that choose to live outside the realm of civility In a strong field of Best Picture nominees , `` Zero Dark Thirty '' has a decent chance to emerge the winner . There is admirably little fat on its bones . No love interests , no backstories , no B-plot about Maya 's childhood : Zero Dark Thirty is as ruthlessly , relentlessly single-minded as she is about the hunt for bin Laden . 	Gripping , suspenseful , and brilliantly crafted , Zero Dark Thirty dramatizes the hunt for Osama bin Laden with intelligence and an eye for detail .
amityville horror Completely cheesy and mildly enjoyable . This house springs so many FX shocks it plays like a theme-park ride . Result ? It 's not scary , just busy . Unless this is your very first horror movie , you are much more likely to be bored to death than scared to death . The movie is a procession of unregenerate B-level goosing . But there 's definitely a smirk beneath the muck . ... it all seems a bit silly when things easily could have been avoided simply by moving out . there is so much effort to explain everything , to supply reasons for things that do n't need them and therefore can not sustain them , that the film folds in on itself This remake stays close to the eponymous 1979 horror movie it 's based on , except for being precisely 10,000 times scarier . The babysitter whose fashion sense seems aimed at exorcising the pants off her hips . If ghosts like to suck Tequila out of belly-buttons , she has come to the right place . An efficient , schlocky remake from the guys who disinterred The Texas Chainsaw Massacre , The Amityville Horror is actually slightly better than its 1979 inspiration . They really put the 'horror ' back into The Amityville Horror ! 	A so-so remake of a so-so original .
cellular Sorry , wrong number . ... The title character -- our hero 's Nokia cellphone -- gets more , not to mention more interesting , tasks to perform than `` Cellular 's '' human co-stars . A slick , unpretentious little film that 's content with glowering villains , winsome protagonists and plot twists that provoke the occasional mild gasp . There is nothing more to the movie than the usual thrills . ... has all the earmarks of a genuinely smart thriller rewritten by a studio-lapdog script doctor who was told it did n't have enough car chases and comic relief . A typical chase picture , albeit a good one . Once the action starts , you can forget about character development , but by then - who cares . You wo n't get big surprises in the outcome , but it 's still entertaining . Cellular , based on a story by Larry ( Phone Booth ) Cohen , is a mobile phone thriller starring Nokia - it 's depressingly implausible ... could be the off-the-hook worst movie of 2004 . It 's Ellis 's dedication to providing an unrelenting series of silly B-movie set pieces that makes the ridiculous Cellular ring . The film bogs down too much and too often to be entertaining ... 	Though it 's gimmicky and occasionally feels like a high-end cell phone ad , Cellular is also an energetic and twisty thriller .
hellboy Inventive but derivative , well performed yet slightly hokey , visually lush yet over-stylised . When the movie 's story line concentrates on the character of Hellboy and his relationships with those important to him , the film becomes a unique romp , with an exciting yet vulnerable superhero at the center who just happens to be the spawn of Satan . Del Toro clearly knows exactly what he 's doing . With the big budget of Hellboy , he was given the tools to do it well , along with the freedom to do it right . Perlman plays the adult Hellboy to perfection : part blustery , stogie-chomping tough guy in a mean leather duster , and part angsty teenager , sick and tired of being confined to the BPRD lest his appearance incite a riot among the general populace . What begins as sensory overload eventually gives way to blatant plot gaps ... I 'm totally on the fence about Hellboy . A film for comic book fanatics , children and fantasy fans , but it 's hardly a heavenly experience for those who prefer actual literature . Hellboy 's characters may be reminiscent of X-Men , they 're a lot more fun . Only a weak villain mars this new comic book entry . A welcome change of pace from the senseless sensibilities of most Hollywood comic-book spectacles . Perlman 's natural gruffness lends depth to the character 's one-liners as moments of levity rather than calculated quips from a screenwriter 's pen . 'This just in : Hellboy is real ! ... the big red ape has been spotted at theatres all over town and the public reaction is n't quite what the B.P.R.D . expected - they love him ! ' 	With wit , humor and Guillermo del Toro 's fantastic visuals , the entertaining Hellboy transcends the derivative nature of the genre .
bewitched there 's enough originality and solid laughs here to call this a charmed effort . Kidman does n't compete with Montgomery 's memory because she does n't need to . She has crafted her own memorably witchy woman . The flaw that endangers Jack 's TV series is the same one that derails the movie : an over-emphasis on Will Ferrell 's character that kills the chemistry between Isabel and Jack . You 're likely to want to pluck out your eyeballs . The biggest letdown is Shirley MacLaine as ... the magical , meddling Endora ... . She does n't just phone it in , she refuses to pick up the receiver . If only someone in the script department could wiggle their nose , we might have had a few more laughs to hang our pointed black caps on . Sexy witch perfected the twitch . The trailer gave away what this movie needed to give us lots of : surprises . Sweet , funny , amusing , but never gels . It is courageously weird -- and that alone casts a spell . The show , no matter how fantastical , was about something real . The movie is about Hollywood . 	Bewitched is haunted by scattered laughs and a lack of direction .
close encounters of the third kind This 'collector 's edition ' will probably go down in film history as the definitive one unless , like me , you think the movie works best in its original version , wherein the special effects of adult delinquency are left unknown . Despite finding the ending to be a little anticlimactic , I still enjoyed this movie very much . Years ahead of it 's time in terms of SFX , it 's a masterpiece of wide-eyed whimsy . perhaps , my favourite alien movie ever A daring film concept which in its special and technical effects has been superbly realized . By the end , we 're swept away by the wonder of discovery ; it 's enough to thrill even a sci-fi sceptic . Not even Spielberg makes them as they used to . Obviously [ Spielberg ] had a ball with Close Encounters , and his pleasure in tinkertoying it together makes it enjoyable , mildly funny and -- in one sequence -- even credible . Spielberg answers the `` Are we alone ? '' question in fine form . Another classic from Spielberg 's most fertile period . 	Close Encounters ' most iconic bits ( the theme , the mashed-potato sculpture , etc . ) have been so thoroughly absorbed into the culture that it 's easy to forget that its treatment of aliens as peaceful beings rather than warmongering monsters was somewhat groundbreaking in 1977 .
big fat liar Where there 's dumb and dumber , there 's invariably dumbest , a case in point being Big Fat Liar . Becomes a progression of increasingly elaborate slapstick stunts , in the brutal , noisy Home Alone vein , in which the complexity of the pranks rarely yields a commensurate comic reward . It 's no surprise , alas , that Mr. Muniz and Ms. Bynes seem considerably smarter than the frantic knockabout comedy in which they find themselves trapped . The film gets snaps just by attempting the high road , and should be enjoyed by its target audience . No earth-shattering accomplishment , but an unusually smart movie that the whole family can go to without a single person getting bored or talked down to . Confounds expectations and turns out to be one of the happiest surprises so far this year ... coasts along on a wave of good , clean fun . In gleefully , thumpingly hyperbolic terms , it covers just about every cliche in the compendium about crass , jaded movie types and the phony baloney movie biz . Billed as a family film , only very young children will be able to dive into the story without banging their heads . Home Alone goes Hollywood , a funny premise until the kids start pulling off stunts not even Steven Spielberg would know how to do . Besides , real movie producers are n't this nice . Uneven at best , but it has a certain giddy charm that makes it worth checking out . 	Though there 's nothing that offensive about Big Fat Liar , it is filled with Hollywood cliches and cartoonish slapstick , making it strictly for kids .
being john malkovich A hilarious and beguiling comedy-adventure-mystery-romance hybrid . And it 's not just the jaw-dropping oddity of the thing that makes it work ; the film has a wonderfully involving -- and even moving -- storyline . I highly recommend being John Malkovich . And if you ca n't do it , at least see the film . An audacious comedy that starts strange , keeps getting stranger , then hits an idea so weird that it takes the rest of the film to explore only some of the many ramifications . The movie is so successful at being so far on the fringe , it often isolates . A comic invention that simply must be seen to be believed . Being John Malkovich proves , the people behind the enigma we know as Hollywood really should be institutionalized . An incredibly rich and entertaining ( not to say , laudably malevolent ) film that far transcends its already way-out title premise . This is `` Alice in Wonderland '' for this decade ; its heroes crawl down rabbit holes into a world of gender role and sexual identity conflicts . Being John Malkovich is more than just the latest cool , smart , funny movie . It jumps off the screen with the kind of freshness , originality , and light-handed stranglehold on the Zeitgeist that moves movies forward . Jonze 's style s in his own inventive manner and , whilst the subject matter is certainly off-the-wall , the dialogue is spot on . 	Being John Malkovich is both funny and smart , featuring a highly original script .
muriels wedding Great little film , well worth finding . Toni Collette gives a wonderful performance . There 's poignant drama in this brash , sometimes overstated film , and Muriel 's transformation is truly touching . Enjoyable little film that nonetheless already feels overrated . An engaging , funny and sometimes surprisingly tough romantic comedy . If the thought of another Australian film with a soundtrack full of ABBA songs scares you away from this film , buck up and see it anyway . Muriel is a splendidly crafted character , acted with a grace that made me care about her life . She deserved something more cohesive than this jittery wedding . Muriel 's Wedding is still a solid and entertaining movie . Just understand what you 're getting in to . Muriel 's Wedding is n't a perfect comedy , tragedy , or drama , but it contains enough original elements of each to make it worth a look . There are some funny and inventive sequences here , but for the most part Muriel 's Wedding is disappointingly simplistic and cliched . 	Heartfelt and quirky , though at times broad , Muriel 's Wedding mixes awkward comedy , oddball Australian characters , and a nostalgia-heavy soundtrack .
blazing saddles Kids may not get all of Brooks ' Old West parody . Hilarious , irreverant western spoof . One of Mel Brooks ' best . One of the funniest awful movies ever made . ... at once a parody of old Western movies and a social satire on race and prejudice . [ The ] huge popularity of this film , still uncontested after so many years , really should n't be that surprising . Remember when Mel Brooks was really funny ? This is why . Somehow the raunchy humor seemed to pass me by . Hats off to Mel Brooks ! Rip-roaring comedy with fine performances from a star-studded cast . Blazing Saddles has no dominant personality , and it looks as if it includes every gag thought up in every story conference . Whether good , bad , or mild , nothing was thrown out . 	Daring , provocative , and laugh-out-loud funny , Blazing Saddles is a gleefully vulgar spoof of Westerns that marks a high point in Mel Brooks ' storied career .
affliction The powerful performances by Nolte and Coburn make the film well worth a look , even if they are part of a less-than-developed whole . Schrader has made his reputation revealing the scarred psyches of American men ... . In `` Affliction '' he creates his most poignant and powerful work . a powerful , bleak family drama about a son 's tragic inability to not become his father takes itself seriously and has no pity , regrets , or agreements A terrifying movie that faces the truth of cruelty and its everlasting results . Rarely has the dynamics of family violence been portrayed on the screen with such grim and palpable power . Affliction is one of Paul Schrader 's most subtle and confident films , and damn hard to shake off . If you want a personal , compelling tale with a touch of intrigue , let Affliction haunt you for a couple of hours . Despite some great performances , Affliction never really takes off . One wonders why Dafoe is even in the movie . But Nolte is , and that 's what enriches Schrader 's bleak drama . 	Dark and bleak , the `` kick-ass '' performances , especially Nolte 's `` effective '' portrayal of an abused soul , is the reason to see this film .
my summer of love That 's what makes this such a strong coming-of-age story ; we feel Mona evolving , but until the last few frames , we are n't sure what or who she 's become . Thoughtful , carefully crafted drama about youth and summer love in a small town is a great acting showcase for a talented cast . An exquisite exploration into the realms of seduction , obsession , deception and disillusionment . Turns out to be a triumph of unexpectedness in its slimmed-down story of two teenage girls , one middle-to-lower-class , and the other upper-class . In adapting a novel by Helen Cross , the Polish-born Pawlikowski has made a strangely absorbing movie about trust and betrayal that showcases the work of two fine young British actresses , Natalie Press and Emily Blunt . Its title may promise sweet , gauzy wistfulness . But there 's a gritty astringency to director Pawel Pawlikowski 's shape-shifting story of romance between two teenage girls in northern England . Ultimately , it 's more about mood than the story , but boy , this is one good mood . Very good performances ... conveys the desperation of a man whose redemption seems to be slipping away Far from earthshaking , but it 's fun while it lasts . 	My Summer of Love is a moody , bittersweet love story featuring outstanding performances from the leads .
man who wasnt there The Coen Brothers wander down some dead ends in The Man Who Was n't There , but they still reach a surprising , grim conclusion James M. Cain would admire . A loving tribute to midcentury cinema . The smart-ass asides , the pre-ordained meanderings of the plot , and finally the level of self-conscious craftsmanship all put me at a terminal remove from the Coens ' world . Like its anti-hero Ed , it 's soft-spoken and full of fear ; it keeps us uneasily awaiting the postman 's last ring . The way ( cinematographer Roger Deakins ) plays with shadow and light hearkens back to a time when film noir was really something to behold . Despite the movie 's humor and sense of irony , it takes on a sense of somberness as it progresses . Thornton does wonders within the tabula rasa of words and gestures he 's limited to . Thornton 's ultra low key performance is a plus , as is the effectively moody , black and white cinematography . The Man Who Was n't There is so assured and perceptive in its style , so loving , so intensely right , that if you can receive on that frequency , the film is like a voluptuous feast . Even though I sometimes think they 're too clever for their own good , the Coens win again . 	Stylish but emotionally distant , The Man Who Was n't There is a clever tribute to the film noir genre .
while were young [ Baumbach 's ] best , and funniest , in a decade . Fear is a major theme of While We 're Young , seriously explored even when played for laughs . A smart charmer of a comedy that feels as personal as it does universal -- at least for those coming to grips with the fact that they now require reading glasses . It still has an edge , but it 's tempered with experience . Like his frequent collaborator Wes Anderson , Baumbach seems to be reaping the rewards of having grown up . Justin Long and Johnny Depp join the `` Clerks '' director for a weird , unpredictable movie that still feels like only Smith could have made it . The obvious shots at hipster scenes ... eventually sour into a complex critique of modern ambition in a changing cultural landscape . A great performance by Ben Stiller makes this an easygoing Sunday afternoon movie , if not one of Baumbach 's best pieces of self-examination . I have some problems with this movie , not all of which can be ascribed to the usual narcissism of small differences . But first it 's important to acknowledge the acuity of Mr. Baumbach 's insight and his overall generosity of spirit . If you 've been wishing you could see a good Woody Allen comedy again , you should check out Noah Baumbach 's While We 're Young , which sees the 45-year-old director moving in on Allen 's territory - the Manhattan comedy of manners . The best parts of this movie come from Baumbach finding inspiration in the way the younger generation works , particularly in the hipster movement . 	Poignant and piercingly honest , While We 're Young finds writer-director Noah Baumbach delivering some of his funniest lines through some of his most relatable characters .
1127407-missing If only it did n't waste so much time employing all the classic sounds , images , characterizations and motivations in its efforts to pretend to be a Western . In The Missing , Ron Howard somehow makes a great movie and an awful movie , all at the same time . The Missing fails to shape its ideas with much cogency . Strange and rather beautiful , `` The Missing '' is a non-traditional Western with a supernatural spin . Little Jenna Boyd gives a striking performance as feisty young Dot Ron Howard successfully avoids all the associative traps delivering one of his finest achievements and a helluva Western to boot . The best and toughest western since Unforgiven . The elements of popular entertainment are in place , but there 's frustration in the failure of the script to delve further into issues it raises , but never really explores . The Missing has the look but not the feel of a terrific movie . an epic . . . that does n't traffic in the supposed romance of the Old West , but one that does capture its sweep , its mythos and its particular , hard-edged brand of mysticism 	An expertly acted and directed Western . But like other Ron Howard features , the movie is hardly subtle .
return of the jedi Jedi still has its grand moments . The acting in Return of the Jedi is stronger than in the previous films . Slower , longer and less powerful than Episodes IV and V , Return of the Jedi closes this extraordinary trilogy more with a whimper than a bang , Return of the Jedi est en bout de ligne juste assez satisfaisant [ ... ] pour que cette trilogie se boucle comme tant marquante . The most disappointing of the original three episodes but still charming and thrilling . The appeal , perhaps , will be strongest to the young . One dynamo of a climax ! A film-making which still out-classes most of the attempts at chase scenes you 'll see in contemporary films ! In scope and ambition , Jediresembles nothing so much as the next level of a computer game , with a new environment , new gadgets and new creatures . The magic is still there , the effects crisp and spectacular . 	Though failing to reach the cinematic heights of its predecessors , Return of the Jedi remains an entertaining sci-fi adventure and a fitting end to the classic trilogy .
happy feet You should see Happy Feet -- not only because it 's stupendous , but also because it features the best dancing you 'll see on the screen this year . Here 's all you really need to know about Happy Feet : Singing penguins ! Dancing penguins ! Funny penguins ! We 're killing them ! Smile for the holidays ! Everyone knows penguins can march , but the animated dramedy Happy Feet shows they can dance . And sing . And preach . A family film that has taken to heart the treacly message of countless other family films : it dares to be different . It 's official . The cutest thing on the planet is penguins singing `` Boogie Wonderland . '' The reason to fork out your dough to see this at the theater is the incredibly detailed and realistic looking CGI . It was sold to us as a cute movie with cuddly dancing and singing penguins , but becomes a life or death battle with a storyline that could have been written by Al Gore . After everything from March of the Penguins to Madagascar , you may think you 've seen enough penguins , but you 've never seen them like this . And despite the film 's decidedly serious undertones , I also found myself immersed in the invigorating music and stunning visuals . A toe-tapping 'happy feat ' of remarkable animated movie-making . 	Visually dazzling , with a thoughtful storyline and catchy musical numbers , Happy Feet marks a successful animated debut from the makers of Babe .
maxed-out Maxed Out focuses on how much we 're in hock without ever really wondering why we need to buy . If you 've ever had problems with credit card debt , this insightful doc will either be the most enlightening or most depressing one you see this year . What Spurlock discovers in his scathing investigative inquiry , is a shocking national situation of debt slavery , with all the earmarks of science fiction . Maxed Out exposes the credit card sham for what it is , and fingers the hustlers who perpetuate it . Part American cautionary tale , part credit card industry expos , James Scurlock 's Maxed Out should be required viewing for anyone who has ever opened an envelope that exclaims , `` You have been pre-approved ! '' Do not see this film if you worry about money . Maxed Out does n't really offer solutions , probably because there are none . But it does a great job of showing how the rich get richer and the poor foot the bill , plus interest . Entertaining and smart , Maxed Out is certainly big-screen worthy ... the film will make you think twice about spending money you do n't have . [ A ] dispiriting expose of predatory lending scams that mislead even smart , educated people and a credit-card industry that is designed ... to work against the ordinary consumer ... 	Maxed Out 's presentation of startling facts and candid interviews put a human face on the issue of debt and financial insecurity .
breakfast club Surprisingly touching and funny . ... does n't just remember or understand what it 's like to be a teenager . The Breakfast Club embodies the experience . ... Hughes may have been the first filmmaker to attempt to put plausible teenagers on screen The Breakfast Club does n't need earthshaking revelations ; it 's about kids who grow willing to talk to one another , and it has a surprisingly good ear for the way they speak . The Breakfast Club was teen-auteur John Hughes ' attempt to take a step back and evaluate the large horde of teens our schools turn out and how they desperately search for identity . Still has legs , still makes you laugh , still matters . an awakening It 's extremely insightful , and pure fun all the way . There might be better movies , but few are as cool as this one . In nine hours of threatening , bickering and , eventually , poignant ( but never maudlin ) self-revelation , the stereotypes dissolve and re-form . The late John Hughes ' finest hour ( he did n't have many , despite a prolific output ) , The Breakfast Club was the best of the so-called `` Brat Pack '' features as well as a seminal film for many who came of age in the 1980s . 	The Breakfast Club is a warm , insightful , and very funny look into the inner lives of teenagers .
return A simple ghost story that is , for all its faults , elegantly told , and compellingly acted . An entirely internalized portrait of a character without a clear interior . ... merely a good ending in search of a proper build-up . Built from spare parts left over by American remakes of Japanese copies of `` Ringu '' , `` The Return '' is at least two steps removed from the first generation copy . [ The Return ] is n't creepy enough to really work properly and there 's an over-reliance on sudden soundtrack noises in place of actual scares . The Return does n't have enough scares to be a good thriller , and it does n't have the depth to work on an arty level . This is n't a bad movie ; it 's just painfully thin . A bland affair with a few clever twists here and there . She gulps a hell of a lot , her cardigan sleeves are pulled down over her hands and her forehead 's slightly furrowed ( not too much , mind , it could make her look old ) . It can only mean one thing : Sarah Michelle Gellar is acting . Sarah Michelle Gellar battled countless monsters as Buffy the Vampire Slayer . Her biggest challenge in The Return is to keep from yawning . A large step backwards for a promising director and far from the return we 'd been hoping for . 	Unoriginality may be an acceptable risk in the Horror genre , but boredom is never okay .
770677993 More science-fiction space opera than superhero epic , it works in fits and starts as its disparate parts go in and out of effectiveness , but the professionalism of the production make it watchable in a comic book kind of way . Let there be light ? Eh , not so much . Better to fixate on the interstellar eye candy . Thinks it is more impressive than it actually is . Faced with over-blown effects , characters look flat and disappear into the background without a whimper , thanks to an insipid script and the film-makers ' unwillingness to flesh out anyone but Hal Jordan . Across the board Green Lantern is an average experience . There is zero character development , an overly confusing plot and way too much dodgy CGI assaulting the screen . Rises to the level of idly amusing summer trifle . In an attempt by the script to be both epic and snarky , director Martin Campbell and actor Ryan Reynolds did the best they could with what they were given to work with . There 's an interesting conceit at the core of Green Lantern , the otherwise overstuffed and clumsy superhero outing starring DC Comics ' ring-wielding interstellar cop . As a disjointed rumble in the cosmos , it 's both too much and too little , and too dorky looking . In this case , Green means stop . Half-campy , half-compelling . 	Noisy , overproduced , and thinly written , Green Lantern squanders an impressive budget and decades of comics mythology .
wetlands 2014 For its general ludic obsession with all things generally thought of as disgusting , the German film Wetlands is stuck in the anal stage . Shocking and outrageous -- but in the best way possible . [ VIDEO ESSAY ] Challenging and provocative , co-writer/director David Wnendt 's nervy adaptation of Charlotte Roche 's presumably unfilmable popular novel , breaks new cinematic ground . Wetlands is here to freak out the prudes and make `` dirty '' fun again . That it does . You wo n't find a better movie anywhere that features a teen girl using her crotch to wipe a public toilet seat . `` Wetlands '' tells a fairly conventional story in about the most unconventional ways imaginable . Wetlands is provocative , a test for the audience , and just when you think you 've seen it all , the movie will challenge you in a whole new level . But what skyrockets Wetlands above and beyond is that it 's bold enough to go even further and question why such scenarios are so regularly feared at all . It is n't terribly clear where the movie - or its hedonistic heroine - is going , but getting there is one wild ride . This exuberantly vulgar coming-of-age story is more exhausting than exhilarating . Carla Juri easy on the eyes , but I got tired of the dead end flashbacks and fantasy sequences . I did not care for most of the gross-out scenes and I got tired of Helen 's incessant narcissism , navet and irresponsibility as well . 	While certainly not for the faint of heart , Wetlands transcends its shock value with sweetness , heart , and subversive wit .
piranha 3d ... packs in exposed boobies and dismembered bodies like a 50-gallon aquarium stuffed with maraschino cherries . Aja rejects the victim mentality of horror for the past ten years and crafts a legit throwback to the classic slasher doubling as Morality Play . Well done . Has just the right tone of playfulness . ... because `` Piranha 3D '' unabashedly embraces exploitation , I would like to cut it some slack ... The problem is that it is n't even good exploitation . Has plenty of good , old-fashioned blood & guts and the kind of full frontal nudity that 's guaranteed to send young boys into puberty . Parents keep your annoying kids out of my R Rated Movies ! Has a bit of build up but once the carnage finally hits , it 's 20 - 30 minutes of absolute , beautiful , mayhem . A movie this adolescently dirty-minded could hardly pass up a chance to go to Lake Titicaca . Take a look at the Piranha 3D poster or watch the trailer online . You 'll know by the end if you want to see it and if you do , then you 'll have a blast . The film more closely evokes the B-movie spirit that gave birth to stereoscopic cinema than any of its contemporaries . Occasionally a reviewer has no choice but to dismount from his high horse , set aside minor considerations such as intelligence and good taste , and evaluate a film strictly on the basis of whether or not it delivers to its targeted audience . 	Playing exactly to expectations for a movie about killer fish run amok , Piranha 3-D dishes out gore , guffaws and gratuitous nudity with equal glee .
master and commander the far side of the world Can you say booooring ? A stunning technical achievement . The film shows how wonderful it is to be a Hollywood Captain instead of a real captain . Crowe 's dominating presence and rough charms are put to great use here . This film is so boring that I stopped paying attention 30 minutes into the story . If you want sedation via celluloid , this is where to go . `` Master and Commander '' has been described by some as `` 'Gladiator ' on the high seas . '' Well , they got the `` high seas '' part right but it was no `` Gladiator . '' Life aboard a British Naval vessel in 1805 embraces a merely stolid , albeit see-worthy , film . Considering how cinema-unfriendly O'Brian was - the author rarely went to the movies , and had to be persuaded to release the film rights -- Master & Commander manages to loosen the shackles of its dry pages . It 's unfortunately dull -- the kiss of death for a movie that 's supposed to swash and buckle . Just to be clear , `` Master and Commander '' is not a homosexual love story , or at least it 's not intended to be ... 	Russell Crowe 's rough charm is put to good use in this masterful adaptation of Patrick O'Brian 's novel .
where the wild things are Jonze takes great pains to make Wild Things a freewheeling , naive-primitive work . A challenging journey into the mind of a boy who no longer feels loved ... This unbelievable achievement is daring , it 's funny , it 's unusual , it 's brilliant . Wild Things might have been just another crass cartoon . Most filmmakers would have made the monsters ' wild rumpus the film 's raison d'tre . Instead , Jonze and Eggers have crafted a poetic , personal interpretation . Sendak 's book crackled with the combustible energy of adolescent anarchy and creative play -- two elements severely lacking from Spike Jonze 's mopey , withdrawn feature-length adaptation . If you ever laughed uncontrollably while engaged in a childhood snowball fight , built intricate forts out of your grandmother 's afghan blankets , or made up the rules to complex playground games , in the middle of the game , then this film is for you . From that belting opening shot to the emotional gut- punch of an ending , I was bewitched by it . In fact , Wild Things ... I think I love you . [ Jonze has ] achieved with the cinematic medium what Sendak did with words and pictures : He 's grasped something true and terrifying about love at its most unconditional and voracious . I think it 's brave and smart and expects its audience to be the same : it refuses to spoonfeed what it 's doing to anyone . Does leave a lingering impression -- but more due to the nagging feeling that it never quite connects than to Jonze actually meeting his grandiose thematic ambitions . Jonze evokes the amplified emotions of childhood , from jubilation to despair , with such a well crafted sense of timing that he carries us along for the ride . 	Some may find its dark tone and slender narrative off-putting , but Spike Jonze 's heartfelt adaptation of the classic children 's book is as beautiful as it is uncompromising .
tokyo godfathers Artfully appreciates the beauty and humanity in junked lives and landscapes . ... a sentimental fairy tale with a social conscience twist , brimming with practical `` angels '' who guide our homeless heroes through their harsh world . The score grates in places but the script hits the mark , with the potty-mouthed vagrants certain to be a hit with older children . this is a movie about Tokyo as much as it 's a movie about three friends and a baby . The story is sweet by anime standards , although it has harsh elements as well . Tokyo Godfathers is one of those rare little gems of a film that comes along only very occasionally . while Satoshi is packing his film with all kinds of deeper meaning , he also has time for car chases , offbeat laughs and a climatic rescue right out of a Jackie Chan movie A schmaltzy story gets grit from an unlikely place : animation . The result is only occasionally pathos , the tone Kon seems to be striving for . It 's an affecting , all too human drama that plays out against Ike Nobutaka 's gorgeous art direction , where snow falls softly on the neon city , blanketing even decrepit dark corners in a sad beauty . 	Beautiful and substantive , Tokyo Godfathers adds a moving -- and somewhat unconventional -- entry to the animated Christmas canon .
the look of silence A shocking and significant film , a further illumination of one of recent history 's great horrors , a documentary that will make a difference in the world . It is also an exceptionally difficult film to actually watch . Not quite as revolutionary as `` The Act of Killing , '' but essential nonetheless A most perplexing film on a deeply troubling subject . Oppenheimer 's films explore the absolute pits of human depravity to such a degree there 's no doubt of their authenticity . Not as formally exciting as The Act of Killing but because it 's so singularly focused , it 's a more emotionally engaging story . And because its concerns are different , both films together are a richer experience and provide a more complete picture . One might say that The Act of Killing and The Look of Silence ... are two halves of a diptych - or uneasy neighbours , like the former members of the Komando Aksi killing squads and their families , and the families of their victims . Like and perhaps more so than its predecessor , this film is an act of moral necessity . Crafted with no small amount of grace or gravity , The Look of Silence is the story of one individual staring repeatedly into the abyss , just waiting for it to flinch . The Look of Silence ... uses members of a single family to represent the millions of victims and survivors . If it 's a far less flashy film than The Act of Killing , it 's also a better and possibly more honest one . 	The Look of Silence delivers a less shocking -- yet just as terribly compelling -- companion piece to Joshua Oppenheimer 's The Act of Killing .
girlfight In contrast to many sports movies , Girlfight highlights Diana 's personal evolution outside the arena , and this attention to the human drama underlying the battle makes an age-old story seem brand-new . A fervent , absorbing , near-flawless film experience , as a boxing movie Girlfight ranks with Raging Bull and kicks Rocky 's ass . Besides making potent statements about gender , class and race , Girlfight also functions as a great fight movie . Puts a novice actress and first-time filmmaker in the boxing ring -- and both score a knockout . Observing Diana 's growth both as a fighter ( her muscles seem to pop out before our eyes ) and a person is a joy . An intelligent , gutsy debut combo from Ms. Kusama and Ms. Rodriguez . A powerful and empathetic melodrama with feminist underpinnings . From the edgy opening credits when we meet Diana , we know we are in the hands of a special filmmaker in Karyn Kusama . Aside from being a film of tremendous social importance and inspiration for teens , Girlfight also delivers us the immensely talented new director and story teller Karyn Kusama . This is a very winning debut film that features a powerful central performance . 	Michelle Rodriguez gives a compelling performance , despite lack of a boxing background ; Karyn Kusama packs a punch with this directorial debut .
house of 1000 corpses Parts have been cannibalized from better shockers and , worse , the stitches holding them together are so obvious they glow in the dark . [ Debuting director Rob ] Zombie is more of a fanboy than filmmaker . He 's adept at tossing off references to his favorite films , but much less skilled at making something coherent , not to mention original , out of them . Over the course of the film , many funny , gory and silly -- but not particularly horrifying -- events occur . This in-your-face homage to The Texas Chainsaw Massacre is the most unrelentingly sadistic flick to come out of Hollywood in quite some time . But what does it all mean ? A cobwebbed , mummified horror entry that makes obvious , cartoonishly grotesque demands for attention . The gore piles up into ridiculous overkill . House of 1000 Corpses is perhaps the most un-scary 'scary movie ' I 've ever seen . It is disturbing , to say the least , and seems destined for 'cult classic ' status . Somebody should have said , `` Whoa , Rob , let 's re-think this . '' But apparently nobody did . 	There 's an abundance of gore in this derivative horror movie , but little sense or wit .
10011774-chloe The story is the problem here , devolving into a ridiculous situation that produces far more groans than chills or thrills . Moore , Seyfried and Neeson each boast sufficient sexuality to power a single movie on his or her own . Collectively , they are the erotic dream team . Pity Egoyan did n't expend that degree of attention on sculpting a more memorable film , especially when you 've got the powerhouse potential of Liam Neeson and Julianne Moore at your disposal . Amanda Seyfried is a sweetly vulnerable Chloe ; Julianne Moore is cold , brittle and , well , Julianne Moore , as Catherine . Fascinating . It looks like a cerebral director and hard-working cast trying to treat a piece of trash much more seriously than it deserves . All three central performances are among what is right with Chloe . It is just too bad they are not supported by a better script . Quiet desperation has power . A look , a gesture and what is n't said often says more than reams of dialogue . Ordinary actors ca n't pull it off . Neither can ordinary directors . Sexy , erotic tale about how very rich people deal with infidelity . The first hour or so of Atom Egoyan 's film is the sort of engaging , intellectual stuff we 've come to expect from the Canadian art house auteur , despite the unusual presence of big-name Hollywood stars . The kind of epic disaster that will leave cineastes wondering how a once-great filmmaker could take leave of his senses , artistic and otherwise , as completely as Egoyan does here . 	Despite its promising pedigree and a titillating premise , Chloe ultimately fails to deliver the heat -- or the thrills -- expected of a sexual thriller .
1190970-ghost town The painfully awkward , stubby Gervais as romantic lead is a funny enough concept , but the actor 's ongoing banter with Kinnear is engaging , and their styles mesh entertainingly . Sorrow and darkness are n't far below the surface of this lovely comedy , which makes our laughter more agreeable , and more frequent . ... an amiable ghost story that uses its stars to good effect . Enjoyable as it is to see Gervais trying ( and often succeeding ) to make something of the mediocre dialogue , it 's not enough . It 's a consistently funny comedy that exactly captures Gervais ' gift for playing self-centered jerks with a barely visible softer side . A warm , clever and often very funny film . On this showing , Gervais 's assault on Hollywood looks winnable . ... there are no real surprises . But the incomparable Gervais , buoyed by a sharp supporting cast , lends the potentially cloying story a nice vinegary tang . By the time this imperfect little film wends its way to one of the most winning exit lines I 've heard in a long time , it 's turned into something , well , perfectly lovely . Gervais ' deadpan expression and sharp comic timing are good for , if not outright laughs , numerous chuckles , in this charming ghost story-meets-romantic comedy . It 's enlivened by the performance of Ricky Gervais as Bertram Pincus , a latter-day Scrooge for whom the living are no less annoying than the dead . 	Ricky Gervais ' consistently sharp performance and beautifully dry execution transform this otherwise mainstream comedy into an endearing , funny , and altogether snappy romantic comedy . With ghosts .
high plains drifter Eastwood registers strongly as actor and director of this revenge Western ( yet another critique of High Noon ) , with a style that 's influenced by his mentors , the economic efficiency of Don Siegel with touches of Sergio Leone 's Spaghetti Westerns A funny , brutal , scary movie , daringly surreal in its mix of Western and horror themes . This was supposed to be Eastwood 's fond adieu to the worlds of Sergio Leone and Don Siegel ; and indeed he cuts the operatic excess of the former with the punchy economy of the latter . Savory Eastwood western . There 's some nice action here , and the whole thing is cloaked in an archetypal spookiness that makes High Plains Drifter work not only as a 'man with no name ' Western but also as something a little deeper . Clint Eastwood 's first Western as director is rather fascinating due to its quasi-supernatural component . Eastwood holds fast to the rebel spirit of the spaghetti Westerns and revisionist `` New Hollywood '' Westerns of the previous decade , but packages it in a film that 's slicker and more mainstream-friendly . Clint Eastwood 's second film as a director -- and his first western -- is a minor classic . Whatever the reasoning , it is a gripping work , harsh and ahead of its time . Dark , bloody , and uncompromising ; the ultimate deconstruction of the Western genre . 	Clint Eastwood 's sophomore outing as director sees him back in the saddle as a mysterious stranger , as the result is one of his most memorable Westerns .
bubba ho tep Bubba Ho-Tep offers plenty of tasty warped humor but does n't have quite enough comic gas to become a cult classic . Writer-director Don Coscarelli piles on unpleasant details and cynical asides as if they were the stuff of wisdom , though they seem intended to produce guffaws rather than thoughts The movie deserves its advance cult status because of its antic humor and , of course , Campbell 's Elvis . Bubba Ho-Tep succeeds as goofy-yet- tender wish fulfillment , offering an Elvis who tries to redeem his self-indulgent persona and become a hero . It fails as the sort of Campbell vehicle that wears out VCRs and haunts midnight-movie houses . If you are in the cult of Bruce Campbell , go see it . If not , you may not get what all the hubbub is about . It is Bruce 's finest work . The results , in the hands of writer-director- producer Don Coscarelli , are as uniquely wonderful and hilariously entertaining as the premise . Actually pretty quiet and could be considered seriously pensive if it was n't for its inherent goofiness . Campbell captures the essence of a once-proud man and , for that , he deserves a thankyouverramuch from the real Elvis . Wherever he is . Coscarelli , writer-director of the logy , fatuous Bubba Ho-Tep , is trying to will a cult movie into existence -- which , of course , never works . Beloved cult star Bruce Campbell has rarely been as good as he is here . 	The best movie to star both the King and JFK .
woman thou art loosed handled as an After School Special Michael Schultz 's powerful melodrama renews an important tradition of African-American filmmaking : the movie as revivalist sermon . You may not care for the message , but there 's nothing insidious about it . The screenplay is overwrought at times , but the acting is superb by any standard . As a film it plays like a heavy-handed morality tale one might come across on a middling cable network . Now , a movie , from the Pentecostal preacher whose line of 'Loosed ' product includes a novel , a play , a traveling seminar , and the 'Woman , Thou Art Loosed Cookbook ' ... This is very much a woman 's picture , both in the old-school sense of highly pitched , Lifetime-style melodrama and in its cast of formidable actresses , all of whom deliver powerful performances . There is little to like about many of the hard characters we meet . Yet the film has a core generosity . You could classify the film as self-help drama , with the line between sermon and drama intentionally obscured . There 's no finger-pointing exclusion or even hellfire here , only the openhearted hope and welcoming love on which the religion was based . 	While Woman is a little less heavy-handed than other message movies , it still feels like an After School Special .
black dahlia full review in Greek De Palma ... does little more than retrace his steps ... De Palma 's bliss in depicting the bruise-n-babes era roars at the senses like a 3-D effect , pushing Dahlia to wonderful heights of production detail . There are moments when The Black Dahlia projects a spectral world , but its ghosts in broad daylight are elusive at best . There 's something irresistible about this convoluted puzzler , a bracing who-dunnit-ness that has its female leads to thank for its sleazy fancy . A gorgeous , glorious tribute to old Hollywood and crime noir that 's only marred by a confounding ending . There 's more moral weight in one paragraph of James Ellroy 's somber 1987 novel The Black Dahlia than in all 121 minutes of Brian De Palma 's florid , sprawling , self-satisfied film version . The Black Dahlia case was already the basis for an excellent , infinitely-better fictionalized film built around it , 1981 's True Confessions starring Robert De Niro and Robert Duvall . What it accomplishes with its stunning cinematography and set design is undercut by a lack of coherence . Nails the tale 's particulars but not its soul . 	Though this ambitious noir crime-drama captures the atmosphere of its era , it suffers from subpar performances , a convoluted story , and the inevitable comparisons to other , more successful films of its genre .
anacondas the hunt for the blood orchid After watching this film you feel that you 've aged a thousand years . This is a B-grade horror-thriller sequel with a no-name cast and more schlock than shock . For the record , the theme shed its skin seven years ago . Folks , you 'll know whether you want to see this movie or not by the title alone . Supremely silly but undeniably fun . ... represents a significant improvement over its lackluster predecessor ... Precisely what you think it is : a workmanlike sequel to a thrill-kill flick that does n't even pretend to be good . The kind of sequel that should have gone directly to DVD shelves . There 's no enjoyably outlandish hiss to this variation on the formula . Part jungle adventure , part horror flick , Anacondas succeeds despite its lack of a big star , notable director or good idea . More snakes does not a better movie make . 	A cheesy monster B-movie .
personal velocity three portraits Keenly observed triptych . Artfully shot on digital video , Miller 's film benefits from an improvisational approach that allows three solid actresses a chance to invent their characters as they go along . Boasts the finest female ensemble of the year . Personal Velocity seems tailor-made for art-house audiences . It still cradles that short-story essence ... but takes it to a place that stretches just beyond the page . Personal Velocity has a no-frills docu-Dogma plainness , yet Miller lingers on invisible , nearly psychic nuances , leaping into digressions of memory and desire . She boxes these women 's souls right open for us . A movie that sets certain strict parameters for itself in terms of time , dramatic focus and technique , and then works modest but striking wonders within those self-imposed limitations . These tales of women slipping out of control -- plucked from director Rebecca Miller 's own book of the same name -- are delivered in slow , touching and raw ways that 'll leave you caring for all involved . A trilogy of stories about women on the edge that features no less than three rotten dads . Unlike many movies you 'll see or have seen about the fairer sex , neither wallowing in Lifetime movie affirmations and morbidity nor batting its lashes with cutie-pie comedy . Expands the limits of what a film can be , taking us into the lives of women to whom we might not give a second look if we passed them on the street . 	Uneven , but a keenly observed and well-acted film about three women 's lives .
last days While undeniably beautiful , it carries little more than the obvious voyeuristic appeal . Sometimes we see Blake through the window , but , as he moves around the room , often we see nothing but the far wall . Depending on your perspective , this is either incredibly gutsy or incredibly boring . Van Sant tries too hard to make some meaning out of Kurt Cobain 's hazy and crazy last days . Lyrical and unaccountably mesmerizing . Unpleasant but hypnotic lyrical meditation on death that was inspired by the suicide in 1994 of grunge rocker Kurt Cobain . Pitt also is n't required to replicate Cobain 's offstage intensity or charisma or charm or whatever he had . A mesmerizing triumph of both pitch-perfect minimalism and devastating existentialism , painting a bleak , uncompromising portrait of desolation personified . It 's an experimental film about a sensational event , placing tragedy in the context of the dulling normality of human life and resisting easy interpretation , just as did the inexplicable death of Kurt Cobain . Van Sant 's startlingly beautiful and original film serves precisely to rescue Cobain from the clutches of the mawkish biopic that , sooner or later , will be made about him . A sad and lonely portrait about death , Gus Van Sant 's Last Days is almost a voyeuristic experience 	While the minimalist style is not for all viewers , those who prefer experimentalism will find Last Days hypnotic .
bride of frankenstein One of those extraordinary films that transcends genre and period to provide fresh , untold pleasures year after year . [ The film impresses ] with its painterly and dramatic lighting , beautiful dissolves and tracking shots , sophisticated effects , and unexpected eccentricities . The greatest of all the Frankenstein films . Bride of Frankenstein ( 1935 ) , a classic masterpiece of 1930s horror films , appeared as a superior sequel to the original Frankenstein ( 1931 ) . My Big Fat Monster Wedding . Whale brings camp humor to this immortal sequel without losing the horror or the pathos which the tale demands . One of the oddest and most memorable films ever made in America . Another astonishing chapter in the career of the Monster . The Bride of Frankenstein has an in-your- face audacity that has n't dimmed all that much after 63 years . Whale 's erudite genius brings it all together . He sculpts every nuance of self-parody , social satire , horror , humour , wit and whimsy into a dazzling whole , keeping every one of his fantastical plates spinning until the tragic , inevitable finale . 	An eccentric , campy , technically impressive , and frightening picture , James Whale 's Bride of Frankenstein has aged remarkably well .
madeas family reunion Though Perry 's films are hard to defend on aesthetic grounds -- the crazy shifts in tone from operatic melodrama to broad comedy could cause seizures -- it 's equally hard to begrudge the underserved audiences who embrace them so passionately . Although his work is n't high art and is occasionally problematic , he 's telling stories that are n't often told . And for that , this black woman ca n't be too mad at him . All the while Madea 's wit , which is refreshing on the stage , feels spurious and often misfires . Perry is a shameless panderer and his movie is clich-ridden , rudimentary , completely unfocused and about as subtle as a wind-breaking contest in church . Tyler Perry means well , but there is no denying that all of this would work far better on daytime television . A Tyler Perry tour de force ! The dysfunctional script and operatically excessive direction ... land someplace closer to outsider art than bad moviedom . The spousal abuse storyline might have some gravity if the movie did n't simultaneously make a joke of child abuse . Is `` Madea '' a postive move ? You bet . Positively insulting to anyone who 's graduated middle school and read at least one book since . If there 's one thing that Reunion does n't lack , it 's good intentions . Unfortunately , good intentions do n't automatically guarantee a good movie . 	Tyler Perry 's Madea 's Family Reunion is sincere in its positive intentions , but leaves something to be desired as a film .
business of being born Full of surprises , including shocking stats about the high rate of infant mortality in America , prevalence and high cost of Cesarean deliveries and contextual presentation of Ricki Lake 's home video of the delivery of her child . Contending that America 's mothers would be far better off if deliveries were taken out of the hands of obstetricians and hospitals , director/producer Abby Epstein and executive producer Ricki Lake will push buttons , but they wo n't jab them . `` The Business of Being Born '' is messy and amateurish but heartfelt and compelling . Passionate , enlightening and unabashedly one-sided , Abby Epstein 's documentary is not for everyone . But at the very least , it should be seen by every pregnant woman in America . Former talk show host Ricki Lake had her first baby in a hospital and came away with the need for a birth experience that was more empowering , with less medical intervention . As issue docs go , The Business Of Being Born is about as well-put-together and non-aggravating as the genre can get -- which is n't saying much , but it 's still a small victory . I sure left the theatre convinced : It 's natural all the way for me . Jeeves , draw me a bath . Epstein and Lake have crafted an absorbing , thought-provoking inquiry into what modern birth has become and how to make it better . A powerful , frightening look at America 's delivery room that makes a strong case for natural childbirth overseen by experienced midwives rather than by surgery-prone doctors . Director Abby Epstein is clearly biased in favor of home birth , but that does n't make her case any less square . 	Epstein 's argument in favor of home birthing is certainly biased -- but its biases are so transparent , and so impassioned , that they work in the film 's favor .
lions for lambs Lions for Lambs is Hollywood 's latest casualty of war , a movie undone not by its heart ( which is in the right place ) but by its stilted , obvious and one-sided presentation . It does n't take a genius to know who is going to be sacrificed in this weak morality tale . Like many a Hollywood political drama , Lions for Lambs carries a full head of steam that is indistinguishable from a lot of hot air . This is an unapologetically liberal film . Does it preach to the choir ? Absolutely . My own left-leaning views being what they are , I liked it on those terms , even as I acknowledge that some complexity would have been nice . The producers of Lions for Lambs are missing a tremendous marketing opportunity here . They should spell each L word with a Z instead of an L , and use the number 4 in between them . Lionz4lambz would be gangsta to the youth market . There 's a message behind Lions for Lambs , Robert Redford 's latest outing as a director . And my goodness do n't we know it by the end of a 94-minute hectoring that feels far , far longer . ... its obvious , liberal message stamp [ s ] it little more than a Public Service Announcement . I 'm Robert Redford and I approve this message . Might be a useful tool for stimulating discussion in a high school classroom , as long as the class is studying civics and not cinema . For a film attempting to grapple with the seething anger of an American populace left hung out to dry by the Bush administration , `` Lions for Lambs '' is far to muted and meek to achieve its perceived goals of inciting social activism . Worthy , without being worth watching . 	Despite its powerhouse cast , Lions for Lambs feels like a disjointed series of lectures , rather than a sharp narrative , and ends up falling flat .
spiderman 3 As he scampers around the bathtub of popular culture , Spidey is beginning to exhaust everyone 's patience . My guess is that when the summer blockbuster season finishes pummeling us with formula , Spider-Man 3 is going to look like one of the few that was touched by human hands . I was pretty impressed with how the script managed to juggle so many characters at once and actually make them relevant . Batman Forever this is not . It 's been a fine if bumpy ride with Raimi down this corridor of Marvel Comics history , even if I 'd love to see him working on something cheap and scrappily funny again . At the screening I attended -- which was packed with real people , not just movie reviewers -- I thought I detected an actual slump of puzzlement at the end , as the movie 's final scene sank slowly into a bog of unexpected mush . I 'll say no more . The third adventure of the guy with arachnid superpowers tries gamely , is solidly entertaining and possesses dazzling special effects , but it falls short of the near-perfection of the Spidey sequel . Stuffed to bursting with action , plotlines , characters , humor , energy , moods , spectacle and certainly inspiration . There were more subplots meringued together than a single film can eat . With a twinge more fluff whipped in , this could have easily been Spider-Man 4 , too . This is a wonderfully imagined , heartfelt piece of pop entertainment that soars not only for its spectacular eye candy , but also during the moments when its protagonists simply stand still and talk to each other . It 's a towering disappointment . 	Though there are more characters and plotlines , and the action sequences still dazzle , Spider-Man 3 nonetheless is n't quite as refined as the first two .
forgotten ... [ Julianne Moore ] is the heart and soul that lifts The Forgotten from direct-to-video fare and into something genuinely interesting . ... a serviceable thriller ... even though it feels an awful lot like a mediocre 'X-Files ' episode at times . Lurking beneath is an equally creepy sense of latent antagonism now , between Mom and the State when it comes to possession rights over human offspring . One-half a good movie . The second half goes wildly out-of-control , leaving the entire film in self-destructive mode . It 's very manipulative , it 's very maddening -- and yet I found it very entertaining . Abandons psychological horror for cheesier thrills . Cool idea . Realized pretty darned well , with some faults . In the `` M. Night Shyamalan '' genre . An often gripping , puzzling and scary trip through Manhattan , remote Long Island beaches and mountain cabin getaways . None of it is particularly compelling , except in that vague way that your Bad Movie Alarm engages ... : In which particularly ridiculous direction will the film take us ? Frightening and enthralling , and quite often , but the film 's consummate thematic missteps cripple the project beyond repair . 	The premise grows too ridiculous to take seriously .
brave 2012 It practically goes without saying that the animation in Brave is frequently breathtaking . Brave starts as a light and airy fable , but its mood rapidly turns Brothers Grimm dark and delivers a resounding moral of personal responsibility and consequences for actions . While the character of Merida answers Pixar 's cultural critics emphatically - and offers young girls a spirited wild card to add to their gallery of satin-gowned Disney princesses - the studio has n't imagined a vehicle worthy of her . Brave 's wonderful animation , hilarious comedy , excellent voice cast and Pixar 's first female lead character is compromised by its lack-of-faith decision to switch mid-plot to a tired , silly device that 's unworthy of everything that came before it . A film that truly lives up to its name , Brave gives animated princesses a much-needed reboot . Pixar 's latest contribution to the sparsely populated arena of PG-rated animated children 's fare is a droll fairytale built of ancient Celtic myths . The main problem is that Merida craves adventure but Brave limits her to mother-daughter psychodrama . When Elinor is gesturing the great story of her daughter 's history and legacy and wonderfulness , literally over the heads of men , Brave represents an experience that so many mothers and daughters have shared , but rarely see in a movie . The technical wizardry on display goes far to save a story that has its heart in the right place but ... [ is ] essentially a boys ' adventure story with a female hero , and mother-daughter bomding replacing the more usual father-son one . Overflowing with heart , vibrant color , thrilling adventure , and with a bold new protagonist to add to the Disney canon , Pixar 's `` Brave '' is a wonderfully unique spin on the classic princess tale . 	Brave offers young audiences and fairy tale fans a rousing , funny fantasy adventure with a distaff twist and surprising depth .
1198658-i love you beth cooper It so desperately wants to be an '80s high-school romp , yet comes across as a film made by people who have never even seen one . Painfully unfunny , I Love You , Beth Cooper is more likely to elicit the opposite reaction . It seems to want to be an edgy story , but it 's just depressing . Here 's the bottom line : Denis Cooverman might love Beth Cooper . But I do n't . I have seen the future of comedy hell and it is named `` I Love You , Beth Cooper , '' a creepy , deeply unpleasant and decidedly unfunny teen comedy that goes on for about 90-odd minutes and inspires nary a laugh , chuckle or guffaw . Hayden Panettiere provokes many emotions as the title object of desire in Chris Columbus 's dreadful teen romance . Love is not one of them . I Love You , Beth Cooper is just about worth seeing , thanks to likeable characters and at least one inspired gag , but it should have been a lot funnier and it falls short of hitting its emotional targets . The troubles start with the casting . Rust is only 28 , but he has the hangdog look of a 50-year-old plumbing salesman . Charisma is not his strong suit . Flip-flopping between flailing farce and dull drama is just one of the reasons that I Love You , Beth Cooper 's graduation day comedy flunks . Because other than HP looking cute in next to no clothing , this film is a total waste of time . The jokes range from crude , to daft , to offensive . And none of them are funny . 	Heavily reliant on stereotypes and shallow teen comedy clichs , I Love You Beth Cooper is a humorless affair that fails to capture the charm of its source novel .
sputnik mania So obsessed with delivering a story about `` mania '' through overcooked narrative and aesthetic means that one ultimately feels as manipulated as enlightened . The reigning champion in the archival footage department features great Soviet footage of those days that ( hopefully ) will never be seen again -- -the days of the US-Soviet space race . Clear , comprehensible , polished and articulate , but lacking the gut-punch to raise this portrait of a world-changing event from the level of a museum piece . Surprising , Insightful , Informative . We are reminded that an `` atmosphere '' of fear may be much more dangerous than the threat . Clips from old television broadcasts make this space documentary entertaining . The archival footage here is great , and the cosmos-conquering craziness will satisfy space-race nuts . But the small budget is obvious , so director David Hoffman could n't go from the Earth to the moon on every detail . something unlike anything out there . [ A ] smart , wry look at the American enthusiasm for and then paranoia over the first manmade satellite to orbit Earth ... [ R ] ings with a truth that still holds ... Director David Hoffman marshals his information into an absorbing story , adroitly narrated by Liev Schreiber , that captures the fears and the hopes of the dawn of the Space Age . The enlightening Sputnik Mania looks at the late '50s , a time that was dominated by Cold War hysteria . 	Featuring riveting footage , Sputnik Mania is an informative , well-made piece that effectively captures the mood during the height of the Cold War .
old joy Fresh as spring water and warm as sunlight , it steeps us in the beauties we will always miss , if we keep dividing the world into winners and losers . Only the alt-country score by Yo La Tengo makes any of this bearable . Wise , resonant and genuinely special . A quiet , moody film , Old Joy offers a contemplative dissection of male camaraderie at middle-age . Though not playing in Competition , the film was a highlight at Sundance due to its precise tone and evocative personal and political meanings . Old Joy is as dull and doomed as the men 's friendship . ... the dynamics shift from moment to moment . The beauty of the film is how director Kelly Reichardt brilliantly captures those moments with lucid simplicity . A camping trip shared by two longtime friends provides the basis for a beautifully nuanced study in friendship and the irretrievability of the past in Old Joy . Too slight to really haunt , but its subtlety is as treasurable as an old friend . Slow moving but ultimately quite touching . There are no big revelatory moments . There 's no cliched conflict . But do n't make the mistake of then assuming that Old Joy has no drama . 	A serene , melancholy beauty permeates this meditative portrait of deep friendship and faded glory .
basic instinct Basic Instinct is a reminder of the difference between exhilaration and exhaustion , between tension and hysteria , between eroticism and exhibitionism . The line may be fine , but it is real enough to separate the great thrillers from the also-rans . The harsh , politically incorrect truth about Basic Instinct is that it 's a tantalizing , suspensefully correct thriller . Call me a prude , but it 's not sexy watching an erotic thriller in which every time a couple does it , one of them gets it with an ice pick . I do n't care how many firmly toned tummies and tushes are bared . Shocking and effective but does n't quite live up to all the hype . Verhoeven does not explore the dark side , but merely exploits it , and that makes all the difference in the world . Could we be ready to stop snickering about it and admit to its status as a modern classic ? Joe Eszterhas shamelessly reworks ideas and themes he had earlier exploited in films such as Jagged Edge and Music Box , but the sheer overheated nature of Verhoeven 's direction makes this extremely watchable . Slick and erotic , it 's not , but cheesy and tawdry are well within its level of accomplishments . [ The film has ] a smug faith in the ability of its own speed , smartness and luxe to wow the yokels . Basic Instinct was a seminal 1990s film , but like a lot of things from the 1990s , it has n't aged very well . 	Unevenly echoing the work of Alfred Hitchcock , Basic Instinct contains a star-making performance from Sharon Stone but is ultimately undone by its problematic , overly lurid plot .
1112549-crossroads Spears 's technique indicates she 's a graduate of the Brady Bunch Acting Academy ... She 's not yet an actress , not quite a singer ... I went to Crossroads expecting a glitzy bimbofest and got the bimbos but not the fest . constantly rupturing and collapsing because it simply can not contain the pop phenomenon of Britney Spears and tell the story it wants to tell at the same time Tends to pile too many `` serious issues '' on its plate at times , yet remains fairly light , always entertaining , and smartly written . Laced with After School Special blandness , bits of tween-friendly comedy and packs o ' cleavage . The movie is dreadful . Britney has been delivered to the big screen safe and sound , the way we like our 20-year-old superstar girls to travel on the fame freeway . Non-Spears fans will remain unmoved and may actually bolt for the exits upon hearing the opening lines to 'I 'm Not a Girl , Not Yet a Woman . ' The kind of movie that seems like a very extensive trailer for a music video coming soon to Total Request Live . 	A cliched and silly pop star vanity project , Crossroads is strictly for Britney fans only .
1133499-1133499-terminal Cloying and contrived . Seeing The Terminal is like experiencing an uneventful flight : The trip was pleasant but not delightful , and you 're happy to deplane at the other end . Rarely have I been so acutely aware of a movie 's softness and sentimentality , and rarely have I minded less . Steven Spielberg wants to make you smile ... which should be all the warning you need to avoid this troubled film in the same way you might avoid the airport on Thanksgiving weekend . Bland and semidelusional Hollywood sentimentality . Probably the worst-directed film Spielberg has ever made . This may not be a great movie , but it may prove a great feel-good balm to many . A heart-tugging , crowd-pleasing yet light-hearted human drama with refreshing comic undertones . A great filmmaker doing minor work . What will this studio think of next ? A remake of The Red Balloon set in Tikrit ? How about Sunday in the Park with George relocated to Guantnamo ? 	Tom Hanks and the rest of the amiable cast make this bumpy ride worth sitting through .
conviction 2010 Bears many of the marks of prominent award-season films -- a genuinely interesting true story with a plucky heroine overcoming extraordinary odds . Conviction a compelling tale of determination . Betty-Anne Waters ' story is better than the film itself . Though , the performances are very strong especially from Juliette Lewis who deserves an Oscar nomination . It 's a solid if somewhat straightforward story of sacrifice and allegiance . While script , pacing and direction all give this the feel of a TV movie , it 's the performances that elevate it . Goldwyn blunts every potentially sharp edge from his film . Two-time Best Actress Oscar winner Swank need n't clear any space on her mantel for acknowledgment of her participation in this soapy redneck opus , which really belongs on Lifetime rather than in theaters . Hilary Swank and Sam Rockwell certainly throw themselves into in this true-life crime drama . But Conviction would n't look out of place as a Channel 5 matine and sits uneasily on the big screen . The actors ' sharp performances make Betty Anne 's every victory and setback visceral . It 's a true story , it has underdogs fighting against the odds , and its message is noble and worthwhile . 	Less compelling -- and more manipulative -- than it should be , Conviction benefits from its compelling true story and a pair of solid performances from Swank and Rockwell .
wild The movie has a lot more action than Ice Age : The Meltdown , which was essentially one long trek . The Wild is not really bad ; it 's just tired . Amid the recycled situations and characters , only a pair of very Noo Yawk alligators gets genuine laughs -- and they 're gone in less time than it takes to escort a toddler out of the theater for a wee-wee . On it 's own terms , it 's pretty good . The Wild follows Samson the lion ( voiced by Kiefer Sutherland ) as he escapes from the zoo to rescue his cub who has stowed away on a ship bound for Africa . As animated features go , it 's strictly paint-by-numbers . full review in Greek This is a movie to make you cherish Pixar all the more ; where every pixel and plot turn in Finding Nemo snaps organically into place , The Wild strains just to get to the end of a scene . The Wild is pretty tame , and in the increasingly crowded , competitive , survival-of-the-fittest world of computer animation , it meows but does not roar A fun movie with fun characters , entertaining visuals , and a Disney style-story that most people will be able to relate to . 	With a rehashed plot and unimpressive animation , there 's nothing wild about The Wild .
austin powers in goldmember The picture is a flat-out hoot , as inventive as the previous two and possessed of an appealing verve that the second lacked . For every laugh , there 's an equal and opposite groan of disgust . Falls short of being a 24-karat comedy , but might be as funny as an Austin Powers movie gets . ... though there is an occasion when a wisecrack results in dead stares rather than laughs , the result is pleasing enough for die-hard fans of this ambitious spy trilogy . Whether you 're new to Austin 'Danger ' Powers or a shagadelic fan of the series , this one may be the last and it 's a worthy sequel to end with . Packs enough drowning-out- the-dialogue- belly-laughs to make it a must-see . Good , but -- sorry Austin -- it just ai n't as satisfying as it used to be . This is the most vulgar of the Austin Powers films , but also the most immediately lovable . The result plays like a series of skits , but the gags are so funny that it works anyway . It 's amusing , but you may find that you 're over it . 	While the narrative structure is messy and does n't make much sense , the third installment of the Austin Powers franchise contains enough inspired bits to entertain .
west side story Natalie Wood , who was made a hit in the Kazan-Inge production of Splendor In the Grass and is the most promising young star of today , gives a fine dramatic performance . The Warriors as pre-imagined by Gene Kelly , this really is the musical for people who do n't like musicals . Sorry , West Side Story , but the years have not been kind . It 's impossible to begrudge the vertiginous energy and feeling that make this one of the great American musicals , and one radically told through dance . A landmark screen musical that left its own indelible stamp on popular culture . [ Blu-ray ] Demonstrates yet again the enduring quality of Shakespeare 's work . The memorable sequences will stay with you after , but the mediocre and prosaic are mood-altering and too close in contiguity . stands proudly alongside other musicals that retain their relevance Verrrry cheesy , but you probably knew that going in , so what the hey . A wonderful dancy film ! Corny-but GREAT . 	Buoyed by Robert Wise 's dazzling direction , Leonard Bernstein 's score , and Stephen Sondheim 's lyrics , West Side Story remains perhaps the most iconic of all the Shakespeare adaptations to visit the big screen .
everyday sunshine the story of fishbone 2011 Filled with personal vignettes and famous-people testimonials , the film has a few too many narrative digressions , but it 's a moving portrait of all-too-human personalities and the dogged optimism that keeps them going . It seems telling just how many other musicians were willing to participate in the documentary to attest to the outfit 's influence . Some fascinating music history and watching Angelo 's amazing antics add up to a very engaging audience experience . It 's a hearty , thoughtful , smartly assembled , vaguely complete documentary about a rock band that , even by the standards of out-there musical acts , seemed out there both in the mid-1980s and even now . There 's just enough uncut truth and soul in Fishbone 's story to keep die-hard Boneheads skankin ' to the beat , even if it 's just for nostalgia 's sake . Aspires to be more than an episode of Behind the Music and succeeds largely due to the amazing talent of the band it chronicles , the stunning , one-and-only Fishbone . A must see for Fishbone fans . A truly wonderful experience . It 's a much more interesting story than your usual Behind the Music arc . The group 's influence - attested to by members of No Doubt , the Peppers and Jane 's Addiction , among many others - is indisputable . 	Everyday Sunshine : The Story of Fishbone is an entertaining , heartwarming , and balanced documentary about the influential Los Angeles band .
into the abyss 2011 Into the Abyss is too self-admiring of its own loose ends to come to the indictment that would put it in the company of The Thin Blue Line , but these personalities stay in your head-which is the whole point . Herzog 's death-row documentary hits hard A smart documentary that takes sides in the death penalty debate but never shies away from the horrendous crimes at the center of the story . [ Herzog 's ] piercing gaze provides a tightly focused look at the realities underlying our nation 's continued reliance on this archaic tool of criminal justice . Watching Into the Abyss , I had the overwhelming sense that , somewhere along the way , Werner Herzog lost his way . The film trawls the bottomless depth of hopeless criminals as much as it examines the `` correctional '' system . Easily one of the best documentaries of the year , this riveting , haunting piece of work fits perfectly into Herzog 's resume as one of our most important living filmmakers . What could have been a well-aimed examination of the most troubling contradictions of capital punishment instead becomes a maudlin , unrestrained wallow . Get lost in Herzog 's 'Abyss ' [ It ] powerfully suggests that violent death of any kind , whether personal or state-mandated , transforms everyone in its vicinity . 	Another probing , insightful look at an interesting subject , Werner Herzog explores the American prison system with passion and not politics .
finding neverland El asunto tiene buenas intenciones , pero , cmo no conmoverse con el primer plano de un nio con grandes ojos llorosos ? Finding Neverland is as magical as J.M . Barrie 's own timeless Peter Pan tale . Finding Neverlandcaptures the magical essence of being a child ( and adults who are child-like ) with a touch of sentimentality but without pandering to the audience . The story never comes into its own , only skimming the surface of Barrie 's obsession and failing to grasp the psychological ties underlying his most intimate relationships . Director Marc Forster ... has gone a lighter , more fanciful route with `` Finding Neverland '' and accomplishes things quite well . Like Big Fish and The Neverending Story , this is a film that reminds us that life , coloured by our perceptions , is what we make it ; all we have to do is believe . one of the year 's best films . Although the tender 'Finding Neverland ' is n't likely to launch a large-scale Barrie revival , it 's certain to please viewers looking for an old-fashioned tearjerker . It 's the Oscar recipe done perfectly without any extra fuss , but it 's missing that little extra , intangible something . Maybe a child 's imagination can find it better . The film is whimsical , but it lacks dramatic punch . 	It wo n't pass muster for those looking for historical accuracy , but Finding Neverland is a warm , heartfelt drama with a charm all its own -- and Johnny Depp gives a graceful performance as Peter Pan creator J.M . Barrie .
the three musketeers 2011 It 's all for nothing , nothing much for all . Lively and bawdy retelling of the classic . Special effects and 3-D fail to add anything new to this radical , and unsuccessful shake-up of the classic story . Even the most liberal viewer is likely to echo Milady 's thoughts of D'Artagnan : `` You are very amiable , no doubt , but you would be charming if you would only depart . '' A frequent choice for transposing fiction into film , The Three Musketeers returns as an action-filled , slight diversion . Does n't bode well for poor Alexandre Dumas who continues rolling in his grave . Jovovich tries hard to be terribly , terribly wicked , but her performance finds a hitherto unknown middle ground between Divine in Pink Flamingos and Halle Berry in Catwoman that 's just embarrassing . Paul W. S. Anderson 's take on the Dumas classic is almost like the cinematic equivalent of CliffsNotes . Anderson has crafted a beautiful and rambunctious film that is in many ways a lot more fun than the last few Disney `` Pirates of the Caribbean '' films . For the latest update of Alexandre Dumas 's novel , Paul W.S . Anderson has added flying battleships and elaborate diamond heists . 	It plays admirably fast and loose with Alexandre Dumas ' classic tale , but in every other respect , The Three Musketeers offers nothing to recommend -- or to set it apart from the many other film adaptations .
diary of a wimpy kid 2 rodrick rules Diary of a Wimpy Kid : Rodrick Rules is full of lively slapstick . I hate to put down any effort to reach children and young teens with a positive message . As bad as I feel , I must be honest . This one just does n't get there . None of it amounts to belly-aching laughs , but Rodrick clicks in much the way A Christmas Story became a cult hit , by viewing the world through the eyes of an ordinary kid . Maintains the good-natured , playful and zany spirit that made that first movie one of the better non-fantasy-related kid films out there . More entertaining than its lacklustre predecessor but has the feel of a straight-to-DVD film . This series ' main character seems to be turning mean . Wimps still rule in this upside-down universe where it 's cool to be square ! Sidelines its best character , fails to deliver on its emotional moments and is depressingly light on actual laughs . I am giving this film four out of five stars because they made some changes to the storyline , but it is still awesome . The problem , as before , is that it 's rarely as lively and funny as it should be . 	Moderately witty and acceptably acted , Diary of a Wimpy Kid 2 is n't much worse than the first installment .
bringing up baby The classic screwball , with the classic leads . Freddie Prinze Jr. has a lot to learn . The enduring fascination of this 1938 screwball comedy is due to much more than its uproarious gags . A delightful piece of utter absurdity and one of director Hawks ' most inspired lampoons of the battle between the sexes . Its purpose is only to delight , and it succeeds . A comic classic , plus bonuses for animal lovers . The magic of Bringing Up Baby can hardly be confined to the period in which it was made . One of the finest screwball comedies ever . If Hawks had a real gift it was the ability of moving things along . The great screwball comedies of the 1930s and '40s are polar opposites of today 's , which makes revisiting them a joy . There is little rhyme or reason to most of the action , but it 's all highly palatable . 	With Katharine Hepburn and Cary Grant at their effervescent best , Bringing Up Baby is a seamlessly assembled comedy with enduring appeal .
jeepers creepers 2 It simply keeps repeating the same hunt and chase moments , run and hide material , and jump scenes over and over again . This is not merely a bad concept , but a dumb and irrelevant one - an idea that feels like it was left over from some drug-induced brainstorming session in the basement of amateur B-movie directors . Jeepers Creepers 2 is unremittingly bad . The nameless monster is akin to an unintentionally funny hybrid of Batman and a blowfish . It 's the kind of insanity that we enjoy watching with our friends , trying to figure out whether or not the director knew what he was doing . A fright-free disaster that makes you long for the 80 's glory days of straight-to-video horror . ... just another monster flick , with most of its budget going into the Creeper 's makeup . I was disappointed that it failed to live up to its first film ... Para compensar a falta de um roteiro , Victor Salva repete cada capotagem ou exploso vrias vezes , de ngulos diferentes . como ver inmeros replays em uma partida sem gols . Salva took this material as far as it could go the first time around . 	Jeepers Creepers 2 is competently made , but it does n't have the scares of the original .
dirty pretty things It is dirtier than pretty , yet Frears finds beauty in the telling . A film with marvellous delicacy , humanity and charm . It 's the didactic dialogue ... and the plot contrivances ... that might produce snickers . The acting is superb in Dirty Pretty Things , especially Ejiofor as the embattled Okwe and Tautou as the exploited Senay . It is Frears ' sure directorial hand , along with some deft performances , that keeps Dirty Pretty Things from ever edging into the risible . Just another unconventional romance about organ removal . Frears directs with compassion , humor and , in a scene in which Tautou 's co-workers try to head her off as she nears a disaster at work , suspense . Ejiofor , a veteran British stage actor , is well cast . When good people find themselves in bad situations , the drama is inherent , and in Stephen Frears ' Dirty Pretty Things , it 's also intense and nonstop . Here 's a film that zags almost every time you think it 's going to zig . And then when you think you 've got it figured out -- and are sure it 's going to zag -- it zigs all over again . 	An illuminating and nuanced film about the exploitation of illegal immigrants .
unbreakable Darkly exhilarating . Once the kid points the gun at his father , 'Unbreakable ' just gets worse and worse . Smashing . As absorbing as much of it is , Unbreakable winds up as a mild disappointment . While it 's well worth seeing , it has to be labeled as a disappointment . An uncommonly absorbing movie . The surprise ending here is as bad as Sixth Sense 's was good . Los resultados son en muchos aspectos superiores a lo realizado por Shyamalan con anterioridad Sets a new standard for genre pictures . Probably one of the best superhero movies ever made . 	With a weaker ending , Unbreakable is not as a good as The Sixth Sense . However , it is a quietly suspenseful film that intrigues and engages , taking the audience through unpredictable twists and turns along the way .
chasing liberty Chasing Liberty is surprisingly good in areas where it does n't need to be good at all , and pretty awful in areas where it has to succeed . It 's light , airy fun , with the cheery snap of bubblegum and the proficiency of a well-turned sitcom . Chases romance and comedy across Europe for nearly two hours without ever quite catching either . Alas , this is n't a film about underrated character actors . What sad times we live in when a contemporary knockoff of Roman Holiday stars , in the place of the immortal Audrey Hepburn ... Mandy Moore . Mandy Moore 's best movie so far , which , I realize , does n't say much . The movie has its charm , but not enough to sustain its length . Like the recent Freaky Friday , pic also manages to maintain an appealingly even-keel temperament , sympathizing with the frustrations of both parents and children . It confronts the universal adolescent plea for freedom from parental supervision , taken from the sly angle of a rich kid 's rejection of material privilege For teenage girls anxious to learn about love through rose-colored glasses , look no further . The picture is filled with Mandy Moore Moments -- approximations of recognizable human emotions , without the complicating necessity of actual feeling . 	Formulaic comfort food for the teen crowd .
1001115-apartment In the canon of classics by famed writer/director Billy Wilder , this jewel of a comedy easily stands as one of his most beloved . A barbed and occasionally brutal comedy with few illusions about personal or corporate ethics . { VIDEO ESSAY } Billy Wilder 's classic Manhattan-based romantic comedy comes with a sly critique regarding 50 's era corporate culture of rampant misogyny and unbridled ambition . This really is a film of ever increasing returns . Billy Wilder somehow took a story about infidelity and suicide and made it into a comedy . No one does the pitchblack flipside of funny like Wilder , and 1960 's The Apartment is the darkest he ever made . A classic comedy , showing Billy Wilder at his cynical best . A comedy of men's-room humours and water-cooler politics that now and then among the belly laughs says something serious and sad about the struggle for success , about what it often does to a man , and about the horribly small world of big business . It probably seemed more daring in 1960 , but it 's still adult entertainment in the best sense of the term . Among the funniest films ever to win a Best Picture , this was also risque for its time ( and perhaps it is today to some ) . 	Director Billy Wilder 's customary cynicism is leavened here by tender humor , romance , and genuine pathos .
1097259-road trip Road Trip is a film that fails on so many levels , committing even the cardinal sin of forgetting to consistently make us laugh . It 's insultingly stupid and downright offensive -- and what 's worse , it 's just not funny . You could count the gut-busting scenes on one hand , and the chucklers on the other and still have a finger or two left to do with as you please . Road Trip is the best dumb party movie of the year ; if that 's what you 've been craving , buckle up . This new comedy is a major surprise : one of just a few films in recent years to show that low-brow humor and great casting can carry a movie for 90 minutes . When it 's not wasting time with character , this deliberately dumb collegiate comedy is good for a few laughs of the big butts and sex variety , but not much else . Tem seus bons momentos . What Road Trip 's filmmakers forget is that even gross-out humor needs a soul . Aims for the edgy humor of There 's Something About Mary , but as directed and co-written by Todd Phillips , has neither the smarts nor the sass of the latter film . The title says it all . An amiable cast makes this trip a lot of fun . 	Some humor is hit or miss , depending on the audience tastes , but the movie is funny overall . Mixed reviews for the cast , especially for MTV 's Tom Green .
glee the 3d concert movie You get the feeling that you 're actually there , with the best seat in the house . Even Gleeks who love to watch seasoned showbiz belters pretend to be high school kids on the hit TV series Glee may wince at the cheesy marketing angle of Glee the 3D Concert Movie . An orgiastic celebration of Glee concocted by its own creators ... sort of like the Macys Thanksgiving Day Parade , but with more hot air . [ Blu-ray ] This movie almost makes me ashamed to be a Gleek . When did Glee become pretentious , pompous and preachy ? Whether you 're a seasoned Gleek or new to the pop-culture phenomenon that began as a TV musical series , you 'll be tapping your feet and humming along in this upbeat , energetic 3D concert movie The splendidly mixed and visually overstimulating movie might make your head explode on the spot , Scanners style . If you 're a fan , you 'll love it . If you 're not a fan , you probably wo n't be seeing it anyway . Sure , it 's flamboyant and saccharine , but with all the cast in top form , this is also infectious , uplifting , and occasionally stirring stuff . The layers of artifice are many , but they always are ; the original show has never aspired to be anything but a cheeky , tuneful and multicultural spin on hoary high school stereotypes . Time to get your Gleek on ! If you understand that sentence , you 'll probably want to see this show . If you 're scratching your head , maybe it 's time you became acquainted with a television series that 's a bona fide phenomenon . 	The unconverted will remain just as perplexed as ever , but for gleeful Gleeks , The 3D Concert Movie delivers exactly what it promises .
10009254-shutter What happens is the same as every other J-horror remake only less so , at least in part because it stars Rachael Taylor and Joshua Jackson instead of actual famous people . A flat , boring , lifeless movie pro-environmental groups ought to protest as a waste of natural resources . Perhaps 20th Century Fox could give some free popcorn to people who buy tickets to their next movie . Shutter features another pale , scraggly haired young woman a la The Ring haunting our protagonists . Yawn . Are more of these Asian remakes in the offering ? I `` Shutter '' to think . It gets points for avoiding the graphic gore so common in horror movies nowadays , but Shutter wo n't make you shudder , let alone scream . paramenei eksisoy , an ohi kai perissotero flyaro ap ' tin pigi tis empneysis toy . Apo tin opoia krata episis to megethos ton logikon almaton , oksynontas ta opoy mporei gia na klepsei merikes eykoles fantezi tromares , eno kseperna to prototypo sto epipono t Personally , I prefer the Thai original , which is available on DVD . It truly gave me the creeps . Suffers from cumulative mediocrity . In other words , there 's only so much recycled rubbish you can endure without wanting to take a hostage . 'Shutter ' is a movie that 's a few years behind its time , maybe even a few decades . ... like a video copy of The Ring which has so degraded that all the good bits are no longer visible . 	Being a remake of a Thai horror film instead of Japanese does n't prevent Shutter from being another lame Asian horror remake .
seven psychopaths So many characters require a deft , experienced hand at the helm and [ Martin ] McDonagh has not achieved that level of experience , yet . A movie about making a movie that constantly reminds us we 're watching a movie , with characters discussing what should happen in the `` movie '' movie that naturally winds up influencing the movie we 're all watching . Kind of . The violence wears you down . Like one of its nutso characters , `` Seven Psychopaths '' has a death wish . Anything but the same old thing , anchored by a fantastically weird , energetic , Rockwell-y Sam Rockwell performance and several scenes of excellent , Tarantino-esque anxiety . Simultaneously a sincere and sarcastic love letter to the magic of storytelling . Clever , ludic , perky , perspicacious - and ever so slightly tiring . McDonagh has enough ideas for six films , but with them all crammed into one , the effect of each is lost . At times , the galloping absurdity drifts into off-the-peg comedy gangster clich . But McDonagh 's brilliant way with one-liners always claws back enough ground to stifle any groans . Yes , it 's a lot to keep track of , but writer-director Martin McDonagh does so with deft humor as the film hurls toward a desert climax , foreshadowed in one of Billy and Marty 's exchanges . It 's a terrifically clever film , and just a joy to see masters such as Rockwell and Walken dive off various acting cliffs . 	Seven Psychopaths delivers sly cinematic commentary while serving up a heaping helping of sharp dialogue and gleeful violence .
league of extraordinary gentlemen It could be introduced as Exhibit A in the case against digital effects technology ... This grouping of extraordinary egos brushes against the personality flaws and clashes that initially make the film intriguing , but then the film slips into a special-effects extravaganza with a monstrous , rampaging Mr. Hyde headlining . Turn the page on this one . The film is decidedly more involving than [ most of the other summer movie extravaganzas ] , holds more intriguingly original conceits , and -- here 's a refreshing change of pace -- keeps its running time well below the two-hour mark . Robinson and Norrington approach literature like lazy high schoolers in an English class , using the material when it suits them and ignoring it when it does n't . It grows into its suckiness -- it 's not sure what to do with it at first , and then it gets comfortable with the idea that it 's sucking , and then it wholly embraces it ... For those of us expecting a smart action film where knowledge of these characters would broaden our movie experience , disappointment looms large . These gentlemen -- and this lady -- are extraordinary indeed . Most studios aim for movies , particularly summer movies , that can be enjoyed by both kids and their parents . LXG can be enjoyed by children and ... their grandparents . 'Tiene varios defectos pero se puede disfrutar como cualquier matine dominguera . Esa es su funcin y la cumple correctamente . No le pida ms ' . 	Just ordinary . LXG is a great premise ruined by poor execution .
after innocence A rough but engrossing sketch of what freedom feels like , and what it costs , for seven men who 've endured that national nightmare . In her clear and compelling film , Sanders lets the innocents do the talking . Sanders ' report from a new frontier in American jurisprudence is filled with the hopeful , haunted look of men who wo n't easily be forgotten . An evenhanded but nonetheless startling depiction of a system that is n't merely blind -- it 's deaf , dumb and stupid , as well . While the film is rich in fascinating , factual information , the most remarkable aspect of After Innocence is its unfailing humanity . The embittered men make fascinating subjects . Although innocent , they have been deeply scarred by their prison years . Documentary shines a scientific spotlight on the criminal justice system 's dirty little secret via ten tragic cases of mistaken identity , each an unfortunate rush to judgment . A strikingly varied collection of individual stories with a chilling common thread : the ease with which the criminal justice system can and does fail law-abiding , innocent Americans each and every day . Informative ( we learn , for example , that exonerees are generally given no follow-up assistance upon release , as parolees are ) and deeply moving . Both riveting and disturbing . 	This understated yet emotionally devastating documentary lets the stories of its subjects speak for themselves .
a league of ordinary gentlemen Closer to a rah-rah public-relations video than a curtain-yanking investigative piece . It 's a workmanlike film , but by the time two of the above bowlers are rolling against each other for the PBA championship , Browne has the audience sweating every spare . Informative and endearing film . Its 98 minutes are as easy to enjoy as picking up a spare , and we do n't mean a tire around the waist . `` League '' is unexpectedly inspiring as we watch the plucky little league , which only draws a quarter of the advertising revenue of hockey despite having better TV ratings , fight for its survival . Browne 's film succeeds on numerous levels , in no small part because he admirably balances the slow-pitch , flyover-state silliness of bowling with a genuine appreciation of the inherent tensions and rivalries in a professional spectator sport . After a few flourishes of Errol Morris-like editing , first-timer Browne settles into a tone resembling the ESPN telecasts so crucial to the PBA 's revenue stream , thriving on the intrinsic drama of competition and the league 's emerging star system . A spunky documentary about the frantic efforts to resurrect the moribund sport of bowling . Great characters , big laughs and a helluva climax all combine to make this one of the most entertaining sports documentaries ever made . Even if you do n't know a bowler 's strike from a baseball strike , this look at a blue-collar sport is quite a winner . 	Even if bowling is n't your sport , this colorful documentary is still an entertaining watch .
matchstick men Matchstick Men works because of the way the key players handle the material . This is the work of professionals acknowledging a good story and knowing better than to get in the way . Alison Lohman effectively brings out how a teen girl can be both a delight and an albatross . Wildly entertaining . Ridley Scott proves that he ca n't suppress his frosted side forever , thanks to this spirited and undeniably sweet look at the con game spliced with a family drama -- his best work in years A post-pubescent Paper Moon with a hell of a hair-pin twist ... Ridley Scott is surprisingly deft with comedy . Matchstick Men is a lot more engaging than a circular argument , but it 's about as frustrating . Unlike most con-man movies , plot takes a back seat to character , and what the film lacks in dramatic logic it makes up for in depth . ... a film that is genuine , sweet , strongly acted and well written at a time when such qualities are virtually nonexistent at the local multiplex . Uneven but oddly likeable . This is a case of a director finding a way to convey things visually so that the story is enhanced . 	Breezy and well-acted , Matchstick Men focuses more on the characters than on the con .
1021749-touch of evil The ingredients are all in place for pulp mayhem . Adapted by Welles from Whit Masterson 's pulp thriller Badge of Evil , it had streaks of teen degradation and reefer madness , and the most intense interracial relationship since The Searchers . Touch of Evil ( 1958 ) is back in yet another incarnation -- proving that Welles ' directorial touch was so sure that there was no way anyone could bollix his work . Where Mr. Welles soundly succeeds is in generating enough sinister electricity for three such yarns and in generally staging it like a wild , murky nightmare . Welles ' outlandish visual talent is on full display as he puts noir movie conventions through the wringer and creates one of the most terrifyingly seedy yet utterly compelling films ever made . Expressionistic in the extreme , filled with shadows , angles and cinematic flourishes , the film raises the usual brooding nightmare ambiance of film noir to a level few other pictures have attempted . Whether TOUCH OF EVIL is a masterpiece as many have called it or just an intriguing , confusing and avant-garde B movie is the question . A sweaty thriller conundrum on character and corruption , justice and the law , worship and betrayal , it plays havoc with moral ambiguities . A class act potboiler which still feels fresh and exciting . Only the elegiac Magnificent Ambersons has such a powerful , all-pervading atmosphere as Touch of Evil ... 	Artistically innovative and emotionally gripping , Orson Welles ' classic noir is a visual treat , as well as a dark , sinister thriller .
the-adventures-of-sharkboy-and-lavagirl-in-3d Of course your children will enjoy it -- given enough flashing lights and farting noises , they 'll like a George Lucas movie . You 'll know who the target audience is when you discover the story 's setting is called Planet Drool , and the hero is an imaginative schoolboy who joins the title characters to fight the evil Mr. Electric and save the world . ... best left hanging on the Rodriguez family refrigerator , not in theaters for all to see . A film that must be watched with a pair of cardboard glasses stuck across one 's face . Oh , goodie . This may not be unmitigated joy for persons older than 8 or 9 , tops . Just so you know . A jumble of concepts and half-baked imaginings . While the movie is far from perfect , overall it 's a worthy attempt . Barely fresh ... and then only for 10 year olds and younger . The words Robert Rodriguez would come to regret saying for years to his son : `` This would make a cool movie '' . Parental pride may have clouded Rodriguez 's judgment . Sharkboy and Lavagirl will entertain the youngest viewers but likely erode the good will Robert Rodriguez has built up in the family film genre . 	The decision to turn this kiddie fantasy into a 3-D film was a miscalculation .
just married Ditches the expected route and comes out surprisingly original and endearing . Well , here 's the first official mainstream release of 2003 , and if the quality of the first movie of the year is inversely proportionate to the overall quality of the year as a whole , we 're off to a good start . Naw , there is n't much substance , and the end result is never in doubt , but the laughs are there . Rubbery-faced Kutcher is a nice match for Murphy , and their chemistry keeps the movie afloat even when the gags stretch thin . Hackneyed star-brite Brittany Murphy-Ashton Kutcher rom-com . Immature and annoying ; the jokes are tired . Real-life item Kutcher and Murphy may light up each other 's world off-screen , but onscreen they have less chemistry than Kutcher and Sean Scott Williams showed in Dude , Where 's My Car ? . There 's nothing wrong with Just Married that a major script rewrite , several fresh plot twists and maybe a couple of tranquilizer darts could n't fix . An innocuous date movie at best . An ungainly and witless comedy . 	Just Married 's plot is predictable , and the overdone pratfalls get tiresome .
white chicks Would it have been too much to ask for it to have been a mediocre , 75-minute piffle rather than 105 minutes of torture padded with overwrought messaging and yo-mama jokes ? The problem with spoofing two chicks whose 15 minutes are almost up is that no mater how funny it is , once their time is over , so is the movies . White Chicks is a slapstick , silly , sometimes crude comedy with some jokes that leave you laughing , and others that fall very short of the mark . Director Keenen Ivory Wayans and his co-conspirators -- his brothers , co-writers and stars Shawn and Marlon -- along with a swarm of co-writers and co-producers throw everything at the screen to see what sticks . A fair amount does . Filmgoers will enjoy their own insiders ' look at the excess and at a fraction of the price . ... so painfully strained and obvious . What did they ( The Wayans ) do to be inspired by this wreck-sniff crushed crayons as they were developing this ill-conceived prank ? Yes , there are some bigeven giantlaugh-inducing moments , but this is one ribald cinematic effort that could have used another extensive rewrite . Chicks does have its moments , mostly due to scene-stealing co-star Terry Crews and the rest of the supporting cast , and just enough laughs to make it worthwhile . Derivative , crude and so predictable it hurts . Clearly made with the intention of discovering a whole new sublevel beneath Lowest Common Denominator , White Chicks is easily one of the worst `` comedies '' I 've ever seen 	Scattershot comedy that 's silly and obvious .
the circle 2001 This soul-stirring film is about the courage and resiliency that comes from a deep yearning for freedom . Profoundly dangerous to the status quo in Iran because it asks us to identify with the plight of women who have done nothing wrong except to be female . One of the deepest impressions The Circle leaves is of the terrifying but also in its way thrilling complexity of experience . A wondrous meditation on the unspoken communication that sometimes passes between members of the same sex . An impassioned plea for liberation that resonates long after the film is over . Circles the heart of noisy , modern Tehran with an informal , documentary-like freedom that is thrilling in its naturalism . Though stark and difficult , The Circle will leave you feeling alive . What few ironies there are , are overpowered by the firm , calm , institutionalized oppression imposed on the women of Panahi 's country . ... a powerful statement about the oppression of women in Iran ( banned within its own country ) , yet also celebrates their sisterhood As potent an indictment of a social order as the novels of Kafka and the great Italian neo-realist films of the '40s and '50s . 	Bleak , yet powerful , The Circle offers a searing indictment of the oppressive conditions experienced by women in Iran .
771228738 Crude and predictable but nevertheless affecting ... Keshavarz has cast mostly newcomers with surprisingly effective results , especially the gorgeous Kazemy , whose somber beauty and quiet focus give her character the gravitas she deserves . This impressive debut feature generates plenty of erotic heat , and Nikohl Boosheri , in her first screen role , gives a captivating performance as the sensually awakened heroine . Offers an inside look at Iran in all its cultural complexity . Circumstance bravely depicts the political plight of independent young women in Iran , a timely and worthwhile subject somewhat let down by two-dimensional storytelling . `` Nothing is Private '' would also suit Maryam Keshavarz 's feature debut , though she chose `` Circumstance '' [ to ] reflect the factors surrounding her two young female leads in Iran . Circumstance suggests a new way of showing stories about young Iranians even as it stumbles and falls over myriad narrative miscalculations . Too much in too many scenes is worked in , even though a thematic relationship may be gleaned among the parts in repressive , fearful , corrupt , Morality Policed Tehrn . We never doubt the sincerity of the emotions on display , or of the foretaste Circumstance provides of a society on the brink of radical change . Contemporary Iran in an overheated teenage microcosm . 	A thought-provoking , insightful look into Iranian youth culture .
truman show A crowd pleaser that caters to our horror of totalitarianism , our love of personal freedom , our belief - justified or deluded - that knowledge is a powerful tool and that access to information is a God-given right . One movie you can pronounce a modern classic with absolute confidence . A brilliant , unique , unforgettable film . Director Peter Weir has created a strikingly subversive piece of information-age paranoia as visionary as anything Hollywood might manufacture this summer , or this decade . Although it does n't merit the superlatives being thrown at its feet , The Truman Show is a rewarding experience . Here is a provocative and profound film that deserves your undivided attention . Do n't change the channel . Some of us may go out wishing for something meatier , edgier . The absolutely riveting story has both ( television and movie ) audiences on the edge of their seats wondering . It is quite rewarding to see Weir 's gifts as a craftsman attached to a script that mostly fulfills its own ideological ambitions . This inspired movie is possibly the best - and most layered - summer picture in years . 	A funny , tender , and thought-provoking film , The Truman Show is all the more noteworthy for its remarkably prescient vision of runaway celebrity culture and a nation with an insatiable thirst for the private details of ordinary lives .
stepmom The most impressive thing about it is that the actors manage to sound so earnest while mouthing the most shameless cliches imaginable ! Who knew Sarandon 's headlight eyes and Roberts ' high-beam smile would complement one another so well ? Contrived yet effective family weepie . Cae en los tpicos clichs y esquemas manipuladores de tantas otras cintas You wo n't be able to suspend your disbelief , but you will need extra tissues . Too loud , bright and shallow for its subject ! Never feels either real enough to move us deeply or bubbly enough to make us forget our woes . Focus on the regal , flawless Sarandon and remember 't is the season for sap . The movie 's patronizing smugness , an often ham-handed script credited to five different screenwriters and at least one major performance that 's not quite in sync , seem to hamper all the good intentions . It 's as cool and shameless a piece of emotional blackmail as any movie has ever produced . 	Great performances from the leads ca n't save this factory mill tearjerker .
animal kingdom Animal Kingdom is the best crime film ever made in Australia and it 's one of the best crime films full stop A wrenching , deeply disturbing drama about a kid who finds that his relatives are conscienceless crooks . The most amazingly self-assured debut in quite a long time ... a more breathlessly exciting crime story has been hard to come by recently . Some species eat their young . In the Australian crime drama Animal Kingdom , the young bite back . It is a masterfully constructed drama that enters the criminal psyche of its characters in great depth . A few fresh twists on the usual saga of an outlaw family violently imploding . The chilling reason to see this is Weaver 's smiling lioness protecting her favorite cub . Seldom is a debut feature handled with such assurance and intelligence The film rarely depicts violent events , and what set-pieces there are are subtle and short , though well-staged . Never unravels , holding us in a vice grip until we 're practically begging to be set free . The movie equivalent of a vice . 	With confident pacing , a smart script , and a top-notch cast , Animal Kingdom represents the best the Australian film industry has to offer .
mistaken for strangers We learn almost nothing about the band , other than they 're fairly diligent and boring ... One of the most hilarious , honest films about two brothers you 're ever likely to see . It 's hard to say if Tom Berninger could make another film that clicks like this one , at least one which keeps him out of the frame . Yet , he has made an adorably lumpy movie . Go figure ... Adds up little more than an anguished man using the hook of following his famous brother in order to gaze , however critically , at his reflection for 75 minutes . The brotherly-love epiphany to which the film builds does effectively pluck the heartstrings , but there 's a lingering sense that we 're being had . With a loose , rambling style , this documentary starts as a backstage glimpse of a rock tour before shifting into an exploration of brotherhood and finally into something much more self-reflective . Possibly the most honest and complex and competent effort of its kind . An engagingly left-field variation of the 'rock band on tour ' film . Very `` meta , '' very funny and very , very touching . The finest rock doc since Anvil : The Story of Anvil . 	A suitably complicated look at fraternal bonds , Mistaken for Strangers offers more depth and insight than the usual tour documentary .
forbidden kingdom The story , which should be forbidden , keeps coming back for more . Whenever the plot pops up , from predictable love scenes to the villainess who hates men for no reason to the crypto-Confucian lines , you keep wishing for the next fist to fly . If you want to break the kids in easy to the whole martial arts thing , this may be the way to go . After all , clean fu never killed anyone . When Chan and Li match wits , each celebrates the other 's presence . This is n't just a martial-arts display ; it 's generosity and camaraderie in motion . What a waste . It 's easy to see how Kingdom would have benefited from focusing on the interplay between its superstars . At times they 're like kung-fu Ernie and Bert ( minus the sexual tension ) . The Forbidden Kingdom is a movie that has Jackie Chan and Jet Li kicking each other . And that is why it is awesome . Ignore puff and nonsense about kung fu philosophy ... and enjoy 'The Forbidden Kingdom ' for the youth-oriented wish fulfillment that it is . The Forbidden Kingdom may not be a classic martial arts movie , but it 's got heart , a certain sneaky charm and more than enough pure fun to make up for that . Forbidden Kingdom is chop-socky bordering on chop-schlocky , but it 's good-natured myth-making cut into kid-size pieces . Silly and satisfying , The Forbidden Kingdom is a juggernaut of beloved movie tropes complete with pumping-up montage of knuckle pushups . Jackie Chan and Jet Li are true artists and watching them together is a real joy . 	This hotly-anticipated pairing of martial arts legends Jackie Chan and Jet Li features dazzling fight scenes but is weighed down by too much filler .
oliver As big-budget adaptations Broadway shows go , this is one of the best . An intense and inspired musical adaptation of Charles Dickens ' classic story about an orphan 's amazing ordeal on the streets of the big city . Today , it works well as a child 's introduction to Dickens . Memorable , and responsible for inspiring a cottage industry of ragamuffin musicals a la Newsies . Reed is craftsman enough to make an efficient family entertainment out of Lionel Bart 's musical , but not artist enough to put back any of Dickens ' teeth which Bart had so assiduously drawn . A treasure of a movie . An exciting experience for young viewers , and is substantial enough for those who want some tension along with the fluffy songs . Eye-filling and lively , but it was better on the stage In adapting Lionel Bart 's lavish musical for the screen , director Carol Reed tempered the sticky sentimentality with suitably Dickensian scenes of squalor . A great family musical , spirited and youthful , with moments of true sadness , tragedy and joy -- full of rosy cheeked dirty-faced angelic-voiced boys with plenty of mischief inside them . 	It has aged somewhat awkwardly , but the performances are inspired , the songs are memorable , and the film is undeniably influential .
nebraska Bruce Dern 's towering performance anchors this story set in what urban hipsters call flyover country . A loving ode to the American wheat belt , told with lashings of candour and wit . Quaint but depressing A wistful ode to small-town Midwestern life and the quixotic dreams of stubborn old men . A career performance by Bruce Dern destined to be remembered during awards season ! These characters demonstrate that just because your search was fruitless does n't mean the trip is n't worthwhile . There 's a poignant suggestion of a modern-day Don Quixote and Sancho Panza , and it works in a thoughtfully wrought film that feels more built to last than Payne 's last feature , The Descendants . After travelling to Hawaii with George Clooney for The Descendants , Payne returns to middle America for this gentle , enjoyable exploration of family connections . In profiling a man who frustrates everyone around him , the film is as realistically ambiguous as it is satisfying . Nebraska is an absolutely enchanting film , so funny , so touching , ringing true - for me right up there with the year 's best . 	Elegant in its simplicity and poetic in its message , Nebraska adds another stirringly resonant chapter to Alexander Payne 's remarkable filmography .
waitress Good-hearted , well-made comedy that will hopefully lead a broader audience to find the work [ director Shelly ] left behind as her legacy . Essentially a king-size serving of sitcom Look , Waitress is no groundbreaker , and it 's not likely to change anyone 's life . But it provides a showcase for Russell , who knows how to make the most of it . While the luminous Russell finds Jenna 's heartaches and unexpressed sorrows , she also taps into her humor and warmth , particularly in her scenes with the thoroughly ingratiating Fillion ... So why does it work , at least much of the time ? Because of Russell , and because Shelly 's uneven tone also provides hints at brilliance . Waitress deserves an essay , not just a review . There are perfect moments that stand out , and the reasons for their perfection are interesting . Writer/director Adrienne Shelly 's `` Waitress '' serves up a slice of movietime heaven . The pies themselves , produced in all the colours of a rainbow - look disgustingly plastic . The sunniness of its tone is so disarming that it keeps you onside no matter what . You need a hard stomach sometimes in American romcoms . Equally , though , you 'd need a hard heart not to love the good humour , good intentions and grace-of-style of Adrienne Shelly 's farewell film . 	Sweet , smart , and quirky , Waitress hits the right , bittersweet notes through this romantic comedy through its witty script and a superb performance by Keri Russell .
lincoln 2011 Spielberg respects his audience 's intelligence enough to tell the complex story and maintain a great deal of historical accuracy . What a feat from Day-Lewis : the nearest thing a 21st-century biopic can get to a seance . Once you settle in , this is an educational and enlightening epic . Yes , it can be ponderous , but for the most part , Lincoln is entertaining . An elegiac turn from a filmmaker we thought was out of new tricks , a vivid , melancholy and meditative look at one of America 's most revered presidents . [ VIDEO ESSAY ] Steven Spielberg 's `` Lincoln '' is a mess . A remarkable performance by Daniel Day-Lewis is the glue that holds Lincoln together . Without him , this would be a very unremarkable film . Why do n't we give the best actor Oscar to Daniel Day-Lewis right now and save everyone a lot of trouble ? [ A ] handsome and discriminating historical drama . Lincoln is easily recommendable to those looking for an intriguing and wittily-humorous look at a very pivotal ( and still very relevant ) point in U.S. history As one of this generations greatest actors , two time Oscar winner Day-Lewis is a shoo-in for a chance at a third trophy . 	Daniel Day-Lewis characteristically delivers in this witty , dignified portrait that immerses the audience in its world and entertains even as it informs .
f for fake I enjoyed every dubious minute of this bit of hanky-panky . Gives Orson Welles a chance to explore trickery , fraud and illusion on the screen in imaginative ways A minor documentary with a few good scenes . A triumphantly self-amused , self-aware reflection on the verities of art and creativity and the lies that sustain them . F for Fake is as grand , multitudinous , and original as Welles himself . For all its nods , winks and witty asides , it 's a richly personal work , picking over the questions every creative artist must eventually ask : Am I 'for real ' ? Does it matter ? And what is all this work worth , anyway ? Welles revels in the duplicity of his subject , reminding us time and time again that we ca n't trust the medium of film If Citizen Kane is testament to a young man 's genius then F For Fake is testament to a veteran 's rebellious spirit and wicked sense of humour . A modest , throwaway trifle but still entertaining . A bold , brazen movie that could only have been made because a top-notch talent decided to show off for a little bit . 	F for Fake playfully poses intriguing questions while proving that even Orson Welles ' minor works contain their share of masterful moments .
mad max 2 the road warrior 1981 Director Miller keeps the pic moving with cyclonic force , photography by Dean Semler is first class , editing is supertight , and Brian May 's music is stirring . This Mel Gibson starrer is a mythic Western for post-apocalyptic times . An all-action movie that delivers all the violence and entertainment you could want . Relying mostly on image and motion to tell its story , it 's a classic action film representative of cinema at its purest . One word : BOOM ! Perhaps needless to say , this is the film that made Mel Gibson an international star . One of the greatest action movies ever . Do I need to explain ? Miller does n't take his foot off the accelerator for a second , and the ingeniously designed and staged road action is stunning . With a much bigger budget , more spectacular stunts than the first movie , this is undoubtedly the best movie in the series . Miller has just as much to say about human behavior and industrialization as he does about fast cars . 	The Road Warrior is everything a bigger-budgeted Mad Max sequel with should be : bigger , faster , louder , but definitely not dumber .
1005339-dawn of the dead Between atrocities the movie has its funny moments and funny lines . It 's just difficult to relish the humor when you 're dripping in so much gore . An effort which redefines the genre . Widely considered that rare sequel which is better than the original . Romero 's script is banal when not incoherent . Undoubtedly the zombie movie to end 'em all . Upon a second viewing , Dawn of the Dead is still just as scary and just as relevant ( more so than the remake ) . It 's a lot smarter than its appearance suggests , and Romero completely sucks you into a story that 's wholly engrossing and epic in its apocalyptic ambitions and scope . Romero 's sensibility approaches the Swiftian in its wit , accuracy , excess , and profound misanthropy . Essential , but overrated horror opus . As a blend of horror , action , tension , and humour , it stands in a class of its own . 	One of the most compelling and entertaining zombie films ever , Dawn of the Dead perfectly blends pure horror and gore with social commentary on bourgeois society .
harry potter and the deathly hallows part 1 The movie builds erratically to the moment when the end credits start rolling . After sacrificing nearly 2 1/2 hours to this movie , there 's a sense that more is deserved . Fortunately , the good outweighs the mediocre , so in the end this is one of the better installments in the series . The biggest plus of this film is that the story is brought out of Hogwarts and into a greater world . If you 're a fan , it 's everything you 've wanted . If not , be aware that this is n't the movie to get started with . The high quality of the series remains . Returning director David Yates and screenwriter Steve Kloves remain attentive as ever to Rowlings ' holy text , and the mood is as magic as always . If you have n't read the book , do so . This is the first 150 minutes of the final novel adaptation ( part two next spring ) and to me it was virtual gobbledegook . ... what should have been great is merely good , a solid prequel to the proposed chaos to come . Considering the new route and the spectacular introduction to the title place , it does have me interested in how things will play out in `` Part II , '' something I have n't felt about a Potter film in quite a while . ( Parental Content Review also available ) This stagnating set-up for a finale wallows in self-seriousness . There 's so much glumness and lethargy here , a new character -- call him Excelsior Lugubrious -- emerges from the mega-budget , moody mist , threatening to slay Death himself with Sleep . The film plays more like an extended prologue than a story in its own right . But some stunning set pieces and a beautiful animated segment redeem things considerably . 	It ca n't help but feel like the prelude it is , but Deathly Hallows : Part I is a beautifully filmed , emotionally satisfying penultimate installment for the Harry Potter series .
good morning vietnam From the start , the film bowls you over with excitement and for those who can latch on , it 's a nonstop ride . Levinson serio-comedy about Vietnam is first and foremost a star vehicle for comedian Robin Williams , who gives a manic , highly-charged performance as the real-life dj Adrian Cronauer in the early years of the War . It hardly delivers on the promise of giving us the pure , undiluted Williams -- Williams at his best . What 's more , it 's not even close to being his best movie . It 's not even close to being good . Acomedy about life in the military that has more on its mind than just laughs . Offering only hackneyed insights into the war , the film makes for stodgy drama . But Williams ' manic monologues behind the mike are worth anybody 's money . Make no mistake about it : Mr. Williams 's performance , though it 's full of uproarious comedy , is the work of an accomplished actor . ''Good Morning , Vietnam '' is one man 's tour de force . Williams is amazing . When Williams is on , the movie can be fairly funny ; when he 's not , it 's too somber for its own good . Wildly overrated whitewashed biopic . Good Morning , Vietnam proved that Robin Williams could act and be hilariously funny in the same film . 	A well-calibrated blend of manic comedy and poignant drama , Good Morning , Vietnam offers a captivating look at a wide range of Robin Williams ' cinematic gifts .
bambi `` Look , Ma ! No fungus and no moss-syphilis ! '' For the first time , Disney has done his backgrounds in oils instead of watercolors . The result is striking . Vies only with Pinocchio as the most technically accomplished work of animation to come from the studio 's Golden Age ... the last gasp of a maturity and gravity that would immediately disappear from Disney 's features . This animated feature based on Felix Salten 's book about the coming of age of a fawn and his various forest friends ( including the beloved Thumper ) does convey some of the primal emotional power of Disney 's features during this period . sad beyond belief , but lovely to look at and listen to ... introduced us to a Hobbesian world where bad things could happen to the adorable , and sent thousands of children blubbering into theater lobbies around the world . Short and to the point , Bambi is an enduring classic . Bambi is probably one of the best movies ever made , if not THE best . People just really like cuddly animals , and there 's not a dang thing you can do about it . the animated film as pastoral poem , as beautiful a depiction of the natural world as one could imagine 	Elegantly animated and deeply touching , Bambi is an enduring , endearing , and moving Disney classic .
locke Tours do n't come much more forceful . Once you 've taken this 90-odd-minute drive with Tom Hardy , you 'll never forget his face . Locke is a minimalist near-masterwork , throttled by a tour de force performance from Tom Hardy and Steven Knight 's smart direction . Surely listening to two builders talk on the phone about the pouring of concrete into the vast foundations of a skyscraper should be the dullest conversation ever ? Not so this is genuinely exciting stuff . The crises Ivan Locke faces with a tremendous will to do the right thing strike a chord . The mistakes that have him in the driver 's seat , but hardly in control , are terribly human and all too familiar . For the most part , it works like gangbusters . Although we 're never taken far beyond the hero 's windshield , it 's still very much a movie rather than some stagebound theater piece . This is not 2014 's most inviting movie experience , but it will stand as one of the year 's most successful movie experiments . You do n't want this movie to end . Steven Knight directs a sleek 82-minute tour de force that is as engaging as it is single-minded . We 're with `` Locke '' the entire time , and it 's certainly a trip worth taking . At first I thought this might be a glorified radio play . Not a bit of it . You need to keep watching Hardy 's face . 	A one-man show set in a single confined location , Locke demands a powerful performance -- and gets it from a never-more-compelling Tom Hardy .
it might get loud Even longtime music fans are bound to pick up a fresh fact or two . But if you really want to enjoy this music , close your door , crank up a CD and whip out that air guitar . The real gold lies in the separate , personal journeys of Messrs Edge , Page and White , explored in their own vastly different locales . For once a film 's tagline strikes the right note . ''It might not affect the way you play guitar , but it will change how you listen . '' It 's as enchanting to watch them listening to each other as it is for us to listen to all three . Rockers out there , it 's time to turn off Guitar Hero and turn on to the heroes of guitar in It Might Get Loud , a six-string `` summit '' featuring virtuosos of the '60s , '80s , and aughts . A spectacular valentine to the gale force rush of music appreciation . Loud is contagious fun , informative and inspirational . Multiply the bliss by 1000 if you happen to be a fan of any of these men . No self-respecting Led Zeppelin fan could hate a movie that contains extended interviews with Jimmy Page . But that ca n't change the fact that It Might Get Loud is an empty exercise . The film seems a bit too in thrall to U2 , which means far too much time is devoted to The Edge at the expense of watching Page fire through some of his thunderous Led Zeppelin riffs . Guggenheim 's depictions of his subjects ' artistic development will strike universal chords in anyone who finds meaning in creativity . Why is n't the film better ? Guggenheim does n't seem to have prodded his subjects in any interesting directions . 	An affectionate tribute to rock 's most distinctive instrument , It Might Get Loud is insightful and musically satisfying .
clash of the titans 2010 Clash of the Titans is a decent enough remake of the original % u2013 but do yourself a favor : Save your hard-earned money and skip the awful 3D version . It 's not as if `` Clash of the Titans '' is some popcorn masterpiece undone by the 3-D manipulations of its parent studio ; the clunky script and blockbuster-in-a-box cluttered construction of it are probably just as lifeless in two dimensions . Poorly written nonsense , but lovers of beefcake action will be happy enough with the heroes gymnastically vaulting monsters and slicing and dicing their way around the ancient world . An extra star for Ralph Fiennes , who is a god . Let 's hope that the computer-game version of the film has more get-up-and-go than this dull affair . As with the original , it 's often embarrassing to watch prestigious actors suffering through this material , and the younger actors fail to register much at all . Thank the Gods Gemma Arterton is very , very good looking . The whole thing is done with such earnest old-time Saturdary afternoon conviction that I thoroughly enjoyed it ... My suggestion after the fact would have been to re-release 1981 's 'Clash of the Titans , ' reprocessed in 3D , and forget about any remake . Forget this remake , for sure . The 3-D is underwhelming ; the movie 's not so bad . There are a number of cheeky winks from the filmmakers specifically aimed at Harryhausen fans ; in the end , though , Leterrier 's Clash of the Titans is nearly as messy an assemblage of mythic odds and ends as the original . 	An obviously affectionate remake of the 1981 original , Louis Leterrier 's Clash of the Titans does n't offer enough visual thrills to offset the deficiencies of its script .
catch me if you can ... a roller-coaster ride of a movie This breezy caper movie becomes a soulful , incisive meditation on the way we were , and the way we are . It 's more amusing than hilarious , more cute than inspired , but there 's just too much talent on and off the screen for it to fail . It ca n't overcome how empty it all is . With its extended epilogue , the film feels about a half-hour too long , but the story is so good and there are so many fabulous set pieces that you ca n't imagine leaving anything out . All of it works smoothly under the direction of Spielberg , who does a convincing impersonation here of a director enjoying himself immensely . Catch Me if You Can would have been the best example of entertainment as an art form in the past decade if not for Spielberg 's daddy issues hijacking the plot . Hands-down , the most entertaining of this holiday season 's fare . A delicious cat-and-mouse game flecked with intriguing Oedipal undertones . Some may discount `` Catch Me If You Can '' as frivolous , but I believe it is an expertly-made popcorn film alive with energy , style , momentum and heart . It maintains a gripping balance between comedy and drama 	With help from a strong performance by Leonardo DiCaprio as real-life wunderkind con artist Frank Abagnale , Steven Spielberg crafts a film that 's stylish , breezily entertaining , and surprisingly sweet .
shakespeare in love One does not have to be a fan of Shakespeare to enjoy it , but bardophiles will get more out of it . It has powerful language and a wealth of talent as its distinguishing marks , but it shies away , curiously , from poetry , subtlety , and art whenever the lovers embrace , and we 're left with no heroes or heroines worth swooning for . Taking the writing process behind Shakespeare 's Romeo and Juliet as its inspiration , John Madden 's follow-up to Mrs Brown combines contemporary humour with a convincing 16th-century setting . This is a joyous and quite brilliant comedy . Shakespeare in Love is a wonder to behold , and to cherish . A rollicking good time , full of genuine emotional pull and incandescent acting , and anchored by a passionate love for the theater itself which puts most human liaisons -- including Shakespeare and Viola 's -- to shame . At first , the breakneck pace is entertaining ( all these people knocking themselves out for our pleasure ) , but it soon becomes evident just how inane a film this is . A rare crowd pleasing movie that 's smartly written and splendidly acted , representing a combination of poetry , art , and entertainment that does justice to the Bard 's own comedies . This is a movie full of moments , and performances , to savor . Shakespeare in Love is rollicking entertainment on a grand scale . 	Endlessly witty , visually rapturous , and sweetly romantic , Shakespeare in Love is a delightful romantic comedy that succeeds on nearly every level .
bugs life Pure escapist fun ! Witty , warm and charming -- perfect holiday fare for the entire family . Just because you 've seen Antz , do n't pass up A Bug 's Life . After seeing it , you may decide insects are n't so ikky after all . Entertaining and Enchanting ! A Bug 's Life , with its excellent animation and humorous moments , is worth a matinee viewing . Surpasses both Toy Story and Antz ! Genuinely funny The film itself , unfortunately , is a lifeless , unamusing contraption without any of the flair or excitement of , Toy Story . Witty dialogue , funny situations , and entertaining characters . The Lawrence of Arabia of bug movies . Though not as deep , philosophical or vocally star-studded as Antz , Pixar 's insect nation is every bit as eye-popping , and kids who do n't love it are very likely to become zealous members of some future Trenchcoat Mafia . 	A Bug 's Life is a rousing adventure that blends animated thrills with witty dialogue and memorable characters - and another smashing early success for Pixar .
back up plan Why even bother ? I would rather carry a child to term , be in labor for countless hours and deliver an 11-pound baby without an epidural than have to sit through that mess again . Like AVATAR , this is a fantasy . Skip this movie and read the poster . It is all there . The Back-Up Plan 's blunt honesty about the messiness of pregnancy is refreshing . It 's a shame that the movie could n't find a similarly refreshing way to tell its uninspired love story . Lopez , appearing in her first rom-com since Monster-in-Law five years ago , is still a likable screen presence who throws herself into the movie 's slapstick sequences with unwarranted enthusiasm . There is n't a single note in this movie that rings true , resorting to cartoonish portrayals of the pregnant woman stereotype for cheap laughs . When they get really desperate , they cut to a shot of Jennifer Lopez 's dog . Ten minutes into this disaster and anyone unfortunate enough to attend will be making back-up plans of their own . If this is a comeback , let 's hope J-Lo 's got something else up her sleeve . As witty as Gigli , as Shakespearean as The Wedding Planner , this limp rom-com bumps from one piece of comic furniture to another . It 's no big surprise that Lopez can still get laughs ; she has a relaxed way with the camera that has mellowed and ripened over the years . 	Jennifer Lopez is as appealing as ever , but The Back-Up Plan smothers its star with unrelatable characters and a predictable plot .
antitrust The movie not only revolves around computers , it looks like it was directed by them as well . For much of its life AntiTrust relies on unhysterical thrills that are rooted in a highly credible set-up ( a psychological cat-and-mouse game ) and keep the audience guessing along with Milo . Robbins offers a delightfully spot-on Gates caricature . The flashy topicality amounts to little , and Peter Howitt 's slavishly generic direction does n't help . This movie bypasses no suspense clich in existence . Apesar do fraco roteiro , o filme sobressai-se graas direo de Howitt , que cria seqncias tensas que prendem o espectador cadeira . Ooooh ! Beware the sesame seeds ! The outcome is obvious far too early , and getting there just is n't much fun . A huge amount of fun -- the Showgirls of cyberthrillers -- entertaining in ways its creators never intended . A routine formula-driven movie that gets bogged down in bad dialogue and some ludicrous plot twists . 	Due to its use of cliched and ludicrous plot devices , this thriller is more predictable than suspenseful . Also , the acting is bad .
teenage mutant ninja turtles 2 the secret of the ooze More dialogue-heavy and somewhat less frenetic , this sequel is somewhat more to my own taste . The plot , as primitive as it is , still is n't very clear ; it never acquires the spontaneity or the force of a true `` story '' but seems to exist mainly as a pretext for the familiar Ninja banter so beloved of the cult , as in `` Cowabunga , dudes , '' and such forth The plot of Turtles II hinges on toxic waste and that turns out to be a pretty accurate description of the film . One can have a reasonably amusing time with this predictable sequel , which is a bit longer on action and shorter on wit and character than the original . This one should have oozed out of the can before it got into any theaters . Even more fun than the original ! For losers Kitschy nostalgia trip with some martial-arts violence . The muppets look mighty fake , and Vanilla Ice was better in Cool as Ice , but check out wrestler Kevin Nash as Super Shredder . if a Vanilla Ice cameo is a highlight , imagine what the rest of the film is like 	Not only is the movie 's juvenile dialogue unbearable for adults , but the turtles ' dopey and casual attitude towards physical violence makes them poor kids ' role models .
kill bill vol 1 ... a movie with such raw ambition and spirit that it literally reinvents the standards of everything it can be associated with . Kill Bill Vol . 1 is one entertaining and stylish thrill ride , no more , no less . At a time when most movies are watery soup , Tarantino has served us a two-inch steak , bloody and sizzling . ... Most certainly based more on old movies than on life itself - unabashedly so , gloriously so , entertainingly so ... .This is simply a great `` movie movie . '' As wacky action-adventure movies go , this is a good film . But it 's the type of work that more than a dozen Hollywood filmmakers could have turned out in less time than it took [ director Quentin ] Tarantino . Ectomorph goddess Uma Thurman gives a dazzling performance . The stars have the acting and action chops to more than hold their own in fight scenes with eye-popping visuals that would overwhelm most performers . Kill Bill , Volume 1 is Quentin Tarantino 's amazing fourth film and the first chapter of a tantalizing homage to 1970s action and blaxploitation . [ T ] he cinematic equivalent of karaoke or bad photocopies , mindlessly adopting style while forgetting the basic precepts of storytelling . In Kill Bill , the allusions are the text rather than the subtext , and the movie never quite develops a life of its own . A head-spinning dream project of extraordinarily bi-polar , nutso invention , Vol . 1 is a candy store rampage , cheering on Tarantino 's fetishes as he built a colorful war machine of ideal double-feature dementia . 	Kill Bill is nothing more than a highly stylized revenge flick . But what style !
red army 2015 A fast-moving , fascinating and at times even fun documentary residing squarely at the intersection of sports and geopolitical history . If you 're a hockey fan , Red Army is a must-see , and even if you 're not , it 's worth your time for its view of life behind the Iron Curtain . Bears on ice skates ! Polsky winds up being as canny a storyteller as his subject - whom he gratifyingly and hilariously prevents from having the last word . `` 'Red Army ' is a thoughtful and cheer-worthy examination of how sports can shape cultures , redraw borders and change history . '' Emotionally charged , viscerally exciting and consistently enlightening , Gabe Polsky 's `` Red Army '' is a sports documentary like no other . It 's a story of global consequences and historic proportions , and of astounding athleticism and synchronicity - and filmmaker Polsky ices it . ... an absorbing and incisive study of the bonds of nation and teams , of individual dreams sublimated for a greater good . A fascinating documentary that 's more than a sports story . Polsky 's documentary is nominally about ice hockey , but culture and politics provide the driving force as the Russians go head to head with the Americans in a battle of ideology , economics and art . 	Fun and fascinating , Red Army delivers absorbing documentary drama for hockey fans and sports novices alike .
dead silence For those who like the little hairs to stand at fright attention on the back of the neck while gulping popcorn down the front , though , there 's a new three-foot-tall creep in town . Hidden from critics for a reason . It 's great seeing Wahlberg getting the chance to have fun with the character , who proves to be a highlight of the film , and one almost wishes he might get his own spin-off film or series at some point -- though judging by the events of Dead Silence , that It 's affectionately done , but rather pointless . If you 're in the mood for a Saturday afternoon-ish throwback thriller , you could certainly do a hell of a lot worse than this one . Armed with a decent budget , director James Wan and co-screenwriter Leigh Wannell fashion at least a dozen sequences that are spooky even while they defy logic . [ Director ] Wan is n't on sure footing with his actors -- Wahlberg is stilted as the tough-guy cop , and Kwanten is blandly uninteresting . Even at a brisk 90 minutes , the story still feels painfully attenuated . Wan lays it on thick , for sure , but without feeling and ( even worse ) without reason . Though it contains few chilling images , mainly involving creepy ventriloquist dummies and scary faces advancing toward the camera , the story is fairly routine . there 's something about its overblown stormy-night atmospherics and reliably dismal dialogue that 's bad in almost a fun way . I 'd rather laugh through this kind of harmless , rickety schlock , any day , than grimace through Saw III . 	More tasteful than recent slasher flicks , but Dead Silence is undone by boring characters , bland dialogue , and an unnecessary and obvious twist ending .
reaping Amidst such mayhem , there is n't much for a two time Oscar winner like Swank to do with herself , except reach out soulfully to the girl who may be the Antichrist . A stream of shocks and blessings a teenager can thrill to . When a movie ca n't even make something like `` biblical plagues '' worth watching , you just know you 're in the hands of filmmakers as lazy as they are lost . Note to respected actors : If the movie involves dodging swarms of sparrow-sized locusts , tromping about in a creepy , blood-red river or facing down a scary little girl believed to be possessed by Satan , run , do n't walk , out of the studio meeting . Let 's face it , folks ... The Reaping is one eerie cinematic Easter ham that will be tough to swallow . Post-Katrina Louisiana and war-torn Africa are little more than special effects generated by life instead of CGI wizards , and the only real curse is on anyone unlucky enough to buy a ticket . What Hath Hollywood Wrought ( or should that be ROT ) ? We GET it . `` The end '' is coming . Just not soon enough in this case . Stephen Hopkins directs The Reaping according to the Satanic horror manual , right down to the choral chanting on the soundtrack . The lighting is often too dark to see what 's happening , and the editing makes a mess of even the most tolerable scenes . Although terrible , this film does raise ... interesting questions : Why does Hollywood keep ripping off THE OMEN ? Why would anyone continue hiring Stephen Hopkins to direct a movie ? Why would two-time Oscar-winner Hilary Swank agre to be in this mess ? The Reaping is frequently silly , occasionally cliched and slow to get going , but the acting is good and it rallies for an impressive climax . 	It may feature such accomplished actors as Hilary Swank and Stephen Rea , but The Reaping also boasts the apropos tagline `` What hath God wrought ? '' It 's schlocky , spiritually shallow , and scare-free .
black swan 2010 An absurd Freudian nightmare that is more wet dream than bad dream , with all the subtlety of a chain saw . Suspenseful and tantalzing , it 's a dazzling , harrowing tale . Black Swan is a stage door melodrama putting new spins on cliches as old as All About Eve ( and maybe Adam ) . Wild and woolly , the movie is a breathtaking head trip that hails from a long tradition of backstage melodramas : 42nd Street , A Star Is Born , All About Eve , and , yes , that kitschy '90s relic , Showgirls . In a way I thought maybe there 's too much cleverness that 's gone into trying to twist the plot without creating a sufficiently tense drama . I 'm nitpicking . While it 's no crowd pleaser , this visually stunning thriller glides on Aronofsky 's visceral direction and powerhouse performances from the entire cast . Most definitely actress Natalie Portman is a strong contender for an Oscar this year , in what may be one of the defining roles of her career . She is absolutely brilliant in the film . More horror than ballet film , in every sense of the word . The four Golden Globe nominations and three Screen Actors Guild nods are fueling the now-choreographed raves about Black Swan . Did we see the same movie ? ( Natalie ) Portman gives a magnificent Academy Award-worthy performance . Shy , inhibited , uncertain , she barely raises her voice throughout . 	Bracingly intense , passionate , and wildly melodramatic , Black Swan glides on Darren Aronofsky 's bold direction -- and a bravura performance from Natalie Portman .
brothers grimm The Brothers Grimm has enough haunting , fairy-tale imagery for 10 movies , but no emotional kick to drive those images home . [ Gilliam 's ] two great successes -- Time Bandits and especially Brazil -- were dazzling enough that he 's been struggling ever since to prove that his best work is n't behind him . On the evidence here , the struggle continues . Not the fairest Gilliam film of all ... The monster melees are n't just means to a digital dead end but a wish-fulfillment celebration of the triumph of artists and fabulists over despots and militarists . For grown-ups who pretend they do n't believe the horrible stories they heard as children . At times this fanciful romp lurches uneasily between violence , slapstick comedy and sublime escapism - in other words , it 's pure Gilliam . It 's ironic that a movie whose central characters are two of the world 's greatest storytellers should be so careless in telling its own story . Grim Too scary for kids and too thin for anyone else , Terry Gilliam 's latest movie , like his heroes ' tricks , has a lot of visual flair , but no substance . a setup that is far more rewarding than the eventual adventure ... Grimm Brothers ' fairy tale references replaced with the slow grinding of plot wheels . 	The Brothers Grimm is full of beautiful imagery , but the story is labored and less than enchanting .
american splendor Giamatti looks nothing like Pekar either in person or in his various cartoon guises , but in a warmly sympathetic performance he brings the character to grubby , soulful life . A one-of-a-kind biopic and a bouncily funny and poignant portrait of love in the most peculiar shapes and places . Casting itself at first as an antidote to the overly sentimental strains of Hollywood melodrama , it succumbs to formula and a facile treatment of its hero 's fight with cancer . Harvey [ Pekar ] may be an average guy , but he has the sort of cynical grace that sucks you in , whether you 're reading his work or watching the fantastic Paul Giamatti portray him on screen . The real surprise of the film ... is Hope Davis , who is utterly hilarious in her blank faced seriousness of purpose One of those rare , inventively made movies that is n't so taken with its own novelty it loses sight of its characters . Its warmth is for real , and it enwraps you . American Splendor is certainly one of the most complete , satisfying and entertaining hybrid of documentary and dramatisation , as well as of live action and 2D animation/comic stills . A deadpan social comedy , idiosyncratic love story , and provocative meditation on life and art all rolled into one entertaining package . Giamatti creates that rarity in films : a three-dimensional eccentric . Spendid ! 	Exhilarating both stylistically and for its entertaining , moving portrayal of an everyman , American Splendor is a portrait of a true underground original .
redacted So obvious in its intentions that it screams 'teenager scamming for the car keys ' , Redacted fails to fully embrace the proposed genius of its premise . The pretense of authenticity which all the sub-vrit stylings are meant to imply do n't lend much credibility to a film that could n't much be bothered with realism . Redacted , director Brian DePalma 's ugly little Iraq War movie , wastes an interesting approach on trite , crude and painfully superficial content . I think it 's safe to suggest no other war could have produced a movie like this . An interesting failure , De Palma 's film starts well and has moments of exceptional power but ultimately loses itself in its rambling structure . If you have n't already seen it , you 'd probably be better off going back to De Palma 's Casualties Of War , which There are enough real documentaries about Iraq without having to make one up . De Palma is extreme , visceral , usually in bad taste but almost always riveting . Feels like the work of a director so righteously angry and so pleased with his formal experimentation that he does n't realize how painfully , inelegantly obvious he 's being . Perhaps Brian De Palma was too blinded by his undoubtedly fervent feelings about the Bush Administration 's bungling of the invasion and occupation to make an honest appraisal of his message movie 's abundance of technical flaws . De Palma 's efforts to make the film seem as 'real ' as possible only make it seem even less real when his mock-ups fail to approximate the things he 's trying to imitate . 	Despite DePalma 's obvious commitment to the material and passion for the issues at hand , Redacted suffers from stereotypical characters and a forced faux-doc style .
when a stranger calls A minimum effort horror movie . It does just enough to scare easily unnerved thirteen-year-old girls , and not much else . Download the trailer . It 's cheaper , quicker , and efficiently shows you everything you think you want to see from the movie . This year 's `` I Know What You Did Last Summer '' ... You 'll be totally immersed and near on the verge of drawing sweat What to remake next ? 'My Bloody Valentine ' or 'Sorority House Massacre ' ? No plot , no originality , no stars -- and no reason for you to go and see this crap . The scare-free When a Stranger Calls is the worst of the seminal horror movies from the late '70s and early '80s that have been getting the remake treatment lately . Do n't answer this made-for-TV style stinker . If you 've seen the first 10 minutes of Scream , you 've seen the first half ... this remake is n't terrible , but you know exactly when the director runs out of tricks ... A production that never comes close to realizing its potential to tweak the viewer 's primal fears . Heavy duty horror fans will not be willing to pay this phone bill , but the core audience for this PG-13 thriller will more than likely take the Stranger 's call this weekend . 	What 's fitting punishment for running up the phone bill ? Why have that person baby sit ; that 'll teach them . Or better yet , make that person through this poorly acted , fright-free remake of the 1979 movie of the same name . Camilla Belle is a looker , but she got nothing on Carol Kane , the actress who originally played the part , when it comes to range . The final straw is that the payoff is n't worth the tedium that comes before . Just hang up on this one .
dr strangelove The funniest film ever made about nuclear holocaust ... A Duck Soup for the Cold War era . A fantastically satirical picture with many chuckles and a goodly amount of suspense . If there never were another satire of war , you 'd think this one would have single-handedly stopped the whole mad business . Endures as one of the finest political satires . It remains that Dr. Strangelove is an extremely funny movie today . This movie is as funny as it 's title . The ultimate put-down of Cold War warriors and Pentagon paranoiacs ... Of the many films considered great satire , only Dr. Strangelove holds up as a masterpiece with none of its bite removed . A masterpiece of satire , paranoia and straight comedy . One of the all-time classics with a great cast and many memorable moments . Sellers is magnificent . 	Stanley Kubrick 's brilliant Cold War satire remains as funny and razor-sharp today as it was in 1964 .
into the blue It 's the kind of pic where the honest undersea treasure hunters are forced to work for a drug dealer . Even as pure eye-candy `` Into The Blue '' is a miserable failure . Never makes it to so bad it 's good , stalling instead at so-bad it 's bad . Without the delicious Alba 's bootylicious presence , the shallow Into the Blue would sink like a stone . Water-logged nonsense that 's only fun when it 's underwater . The makers of Into the Blue know what the audience wants . And they deliver a little bit more . Mad props to Peter Zuccarini , who headed the team of ocean-bound photographers and captured some remarkably vivid footage , and also to the actors , who spend plenty of time looking cool , calm and collected swimming with the predatory fishes . Lumbers in circles before crashing into a surprisingly sadistic finale . The most improbable of movies , a comic thriller set in the Bahamas in which Walker and Alba bare enough flesh to seduce us into thinking they 've bared pieces of their souls . A glitzy little B-movie . 	Even the endless shots of bronzed beach babes and buffed dudes ca n't keep this soggy scuba flick 's plot from drowning .
legion 2010 If you 've seen it in the endlessly running ads , you 've `` seen it '' in the film itself There 's a fumbled excuse that `` God got tired of the bullshit '' and decided to wipe out humanity . In this regard , the audience will probably be on God 's side . That flat middle chunk is the problem , the only thing keeping it from being a respectably stupid B-movie . `` It 's a labored , darkly photographed , cringingly acted hodgepodge of fanciful geek-bait genre ideas and hideous connect-the-dots scripting . Who knew the end of the world could be such a screaming bore . '' An utterly ludicrous entry in the biblical-horror subgenre . Apocalyptic sci-fi movies are becoming regrettably common , and Legion is the daftest yet . If it was n't taking itself so bloody seriously one could at least laugh with it , but as it stands Legion is a film that one ca n't help but laugh at . Could have been T2 with seraphs , or Assault On Precinct 13 crossed with Revelations . Instead , it 's a lazy genre bore . Does n't bode well for Priest , the next Stewart/Bettany film in the pipeline . A cartoonishly grim supernatural thriller that could stand a lot less talk and a lot more thrills . I would prefer to think that Legion was written by a Final Draft program possessed by Pat Robertson 's subconscious . 	Despite a solid cast and intermittent thrills , Legion suffers from a curiously languid pace , confused plot , and an excess of dialogue .
bride wars There 's a good deal of potential squandered in this strained comedy , which suffers from lazy writing , miscalculated acting , perfunctory directing and general bad timing . As romantic as the dollar dance and as funny as the quips from a hokey wedding DJ . A jaw-clenchingly unfunny insult to both sexes and everyone 's intelligence , it redefines the term 'bridal shower ' . Hudson has only herself to blame for agreeing to the script and a hairstyle that makes her look like a cross between Hilary Duff and a shrunken head . If anyone asks you if you want to see Bride Wars , remember the right answer : I do n't . Shrill and shallow , 'Bride Wars ' would make anyone wince at the thought of matrimony . Often unimaginative , asinine and bland , even if you 're willing to check your brain at the door and suspend your disbelief for 90 minutes . Director Gary Winick has long since abandoned his cool cred from Tadpole and 13 Going on 30 and given himself over to the dark side of making glossy amusements that are about as deep as staring into a snow globe . All in all , it 's a good girlfriend movie and a decent date-night picture . As vacuous and disposable as Hollywood comedies come . I 'd say it 's preferable to rabies , but having never had rabies , I ca n't be sure , can I ? 	Bride Wars takes the already wearisome concept of battling bridezillas , and makes it thoroughly insufferable via a lazy script and wholly detestable characters .
saw While a tad derivative , Saw shows promise of better things to come from Whannell 's imagination and Wan 's composition . Whannell and Wan ... come up with some of the most twisted stuff you have never imagined . Complex , tricksy , gruesome and thoroughly entertaining . Effectively ugly . A gore movie with no teeth . A bloody , repugnant world that will offend all but hard-core horror fans . Though dumber than a box of rocks , Saw forges ahead with the kind of conviction and energy that will keep bad-cinema junkies sitting bolt upright . It is a more intelligent entry than most blood and gore flicks . But it has too much blood and killing for my taste . An efficiently made thriller , cheerfully gruesome , and finally not quite worth the ordeal it puts us through . Sick as the story is , it 's the visuals that give Saw it 's visceral punch . 	Saw is more than nasty enough for genre junkies , but far too twisted , gory , and shallow for more discerning horror fans .
dances with wolves Earnest , handsome , and frequently quite excellent . In his directorial debut , Kevin Costner brings a rare degree of grace and feeling to this elegiac tale . As a director , Costner is alive to the sweep of the country and the expansive spirit of the western-movie tradition . The beginning of the impressive revival of the western . [ Costner ] makes it a true human story , portraying the range of emotions from tragedy to joy . No one can doubt Kevin Costner 's sincerity or vision . Costner tells a personal story that never loses touch with the vast Western spaces encompassing and defining it . Dances With Wolves is an epic that breathes . And it 's a beauty . This is a marvel from beginning to end . A simple story , magnificently told . For all its worthiness and pictorial beauty , the narrative is damaged somewhat by Costner 's over-cautious , sentimentalised portrait of the Sioux as early eco-warriors . 	A grand , sweeping epic with inarguably noble intentions and arresting cinematography , but one whose center , arguably , is not as weighty as it should be .
atlas shrugged part i This movie is crushingly ordinary in every way , which with Rand I would n't have thought possible . You can feel them straining against the limitations -- moreso than the budget , the time compression . They fought the good fight as well as they possibly could . Made on the cheap with no-name stars , this is no better than a stilted anachronistic curiosity , a low-rent version of the eighties ' prime-time soap Dallas , with the industrial concerns and sexual mores of 1950s , all , somehow , set in 2016 . Look , the problem with adapting Atlas Shrugged in the first place is that it 's just not a great story . Not all books should be made into movies , and this is one of them . A talky bore that spends too much time in wood-panelled offices and at chatter-heavy parties that were clearly shot on the cheap . Ayn Rand 's monumental 1,168-page , 1957 novel gets the low-budget , no-talent treatment and sits there flapping on screen like a bludgeoned seal . Atlas Shrugged . I arched eyebrow , scrunched forehead , yawned . However controversial , Rand 's ideas deserve better than this watered-down , uninspired bilge . Let 's say you know the novel , you agree with Ayn Rand , you 're an objectivist or a libertarian , and you 've been waiting eagerly for this movie . Man , are you going to get a letdown . 	Passionate ideologues may find it compelling , but most filmgoers will find this low-budget adaptation of the Ayn Rand bestseller decidedly lacking .
the-amateurs This sort of thing was done much better by the British years ago in The Full Monty and Calendar Girls . There 's really no call for an American rehash . All this star power goes for naught in Traeger 's film , which tries to blend bucolic sweetness with juvenile let's-make-a-porno jokes . Never less than watchable , thanks to its superb cast , but it could and should have been so much better . A sadly wasted opportunity . If there 's something hypocritically coy about a sex comedy without sex ( let alone a porn industry without victims ) , there 's also something refreshing about the characters ' unabashed good nature -- at least until the grievously saccharine finale . How embarrassing to see an actor of Jeff Bridges 's calibre giving his all in such a terrible film . It 's a lame comedy which raises only a few facetious groans . A sleazy , uninspired , pathetically unfunny sex farce . A strong ensemble cast spruces up a weak script in this trifle ... the little picture that , ultimately , does n't . You 'll notice that the actors are way overqualified for this nonsense . But the kick they get out of one another is what pulls you in . It 's just not much fun to watch first time director Michael Traeger aim for Capra-esque comedy and wind up closer to crap . ultimately heartwarming and humorous enough to merit a recommendation 	The Amateurs is a largely unfunny sex comedy that squanders a talented cast .
waterboy The Waterboy should have been sacked long before it reached the theater . Sandler has proven himself a worthy alchemist with The Waterboy , transforming swamp water to Evian . Quite a refreshing if moronic romp . Sandler rocks ! A damned funny movie ! Kathy Bates prova ter a tendncia de se transformar numa espcie de Michael Caine de saias : um artista de grande talento que se envolve em produes abaixo de seus padres . Adam Sandler movies are like kumquats -- you either like them or you do n't . Adam Sandler has made predictable movies with worn out plots an artform . The only redeeming feature of the movie is a nicely underplayed performance by Henry Winkler as the nervous and intimidated coach . There 's something funny and endearing about Adam Sandler , even if his moronic movies are simply variations on each other and he always plays the nerdy , hapless hero . There are no epic moments that will go down in comedy history here . But there 's enough funny stuff to keep you amused throughout the movie . Sandler proves yet again that the comedic buffoon character is an effective cinematic tool for tickling the funny bone . 	This is an insult to its genre with low humor and cheap gags .
burn after reading a lot of fun to watch , but it 's not going to hold up as one of the Coen Brothers major works . Goofy fluff spy comedy that revolves around a missing CIA memoir . Burn After Reading is neither an instant classic like No Country for Old Men nor a psychedelic playground like The Big Lebowski . But it is a Coen brothers kick in the pants . The ensemble is at once loose and pitch perfect . Hardly a one of them plays a wholly likable person , yet each reveals the despearate or stupid humanity of their characters . The brisk pace and sharp humor in Burn After Reading is a welcome relief after weeks of witless comedies and overblown action flicks . Burn does n't rank up with the Coens ' best comedies , but , with its bevy of Beltway types acting purely out of self-interest , it has its finger on the pulse of the times more than its slight framework might indicate . Showcases a pitch-black comic sensibility that will either attract or repel moviegoers . Star vehicle that 's playful but anti-glamorous ? Goofy comedy-thriller that defies genre expectations in blending satire , spoof , parody and violence ? The Coens ' new film is all of the above , done in breezy 94 minutes A quirky tale of lust , greed , vanity , idiocy and ineptitude that spreads its giggly ripples through the bureaucratic buildings and leafy suburbs of Washington , D.C . chuckle away , by all means - but also watch this with open eyes , and you might just begin to suspect that the absurd collateral damage on show here is a worrying reflection of the world that we all live in , where the dumb lead the dumber . 	With Burn After Reading , the Coen Brothers have crafted another clever comedy/thriller with an outlandish plot and memorable characters .
american outlaws it 's all so neat and clean and noble that it does n't even earn its dubious PG-13 rating The dreamiest Jesse James ever , looking less like a bandit and more like the grand prize in my sister 's old 'Mystery Date ' board game . This film wo n't play far beyond the target audience . A guilty romp that does n't take itself seriously . Along the way , the boys squabble over who 's the cutest of the gang , who 's the most popular cowboy in the gang , and who ought to go on MTV 's Total Request Live . Jesse is supposed to be the charismatic one , but Farrell does n't really lead the cast . Setting new standards in historical inaccuracy . I 'd recommend that you check it out on video where you might just enjoy it for the fluffy western that it is . The corny script ... intersects only tangentially with history . Generally goofy fun - whether that kind of `` fun '' was intentional or not . 	With corny dialogue , revisionist history , anachronistic music , and a generically attractive cast , American Outlaws is a sanitized , teenybopper version of Jesse James .
the-passenger-professione-reporter In The Passenger , Jack Nicholson gives one of his finest performances as television journalist David Locke . A tour de force of depth and quality . They do n't make 'em like this anymore , and contemporary audiences may need to adjust their expectations a bit in order to fully appreciate this deliberately paced , largely understated character study . ... keep your eye on the girl -- she may be the key to getting this curiously languid movie . Remains , thirty years later , as rambling , flaccid , enigmatically brooding and ultimately tedious as it was back in 1975 . The Passenger is n't finally the masterpiece some have made it out to be , but it retains a singular intrigue : It 's the first , and probably the last , thriller ever made about depression . The Passenger has more than its share of virtues ... that still retain their power after nearly 30 years . Thanks to Luciano Tovoli 's magnificent cinematography of the African desert and the arid Spanish countryside , we gain a potent sense of Locke 's internal emptiness . Sure , it 's obstinately slow , but what an eye this man has . Every frame is fascinating . A needed antidote in a cinematic world that offers cheap , sugary cinematic snacks . This is a four-course meal . 	Antonioni 's classic , a tale of lonely , estranged characters on a journey though the mysterious landscapes of identity , shimmers with beauty and uncertainty .
20 feet from stardom 20 Feet From Stardom will be highly entertaining to anyone who ever let a needle drop into a '70s-era groove . When any one of these women steps up to the microphone - well , they really soar . And they carry us along with them . Following Fisher and Hill verit style on their busy days freshens the nostalgia . . . Informative and entertaining , gives well-deserved r-e-s-p-e-c-t. No auto-tuning or dubs . 20 Feet From Stardom does n't shy away from the harder truths of the industry , but it goes down easily , and is stylishly assembled , spryly executed , and satisfyingly arced to end in triumph . The enthusiasm and love of music on display is just unavoidable . `` 20 Feet '' may not get the whole story , but it gets some good ones . The documentary tells similarly poignant stories in a fast-paced 91 minutes through interviews , contemporary concert footage and great archival stuff . This is a musical field of dreams high in corn , but also , sometimes , in the epiphanic empowerment and wonder of stardom conferred . A film that may be the happiest time you 'll have at the movies all summer . This film festival favorite is a genuine crowd pleaser , meant to right a few wrongs in the music industry , offer a window into the lives of some hard-charging entertainers , and above all make audiences leave the theater humming a song . [ Neville ] nails the sense of joie de vivre these extraordinary artists put into every note-a tribute to doing it for the love of the expression over stardom that provides incalculable amounts of inspiration . 	Rich , insightful , and occasionally heartbreaking , 20 Feet From Stardom is an energetic tribute to the passion , talent , and hard work of backup singers .
fog It attempts to apply too much logic to the events going on that it distracts the viewer from pleasure and replaces it with boredom . Mildly scary here and there . A boorishly bland supernatural action thriller . Like most remakes , The Fog is pretty unnecessary . A film riddled with missed opportunities for good clean scares . The actors do their best , under the circumstances . Welling makes an engaging lead and Grace employs her trademarked wounded , fragile look ( that serves her so well in Lost ) to good effect and wanders around in her underwear a lot . Add one more to the list of unnecessary horror remakes . The Fog is a bore , laden with unspectacular special effects and dreadful acting from television-trained youth who do n't have the experience to truly deliver the goods . Maggie Grace can be snobby-scared , or snobby-haughty , or even snobby-injured , but she ca n't seem to leave that snobbyness behind , no matter what is chasing her . A dull , stupid , boring picture , inferior in every way to the John Carpenter film it remakes , but it 's bad for the same reason a lot of effects-driven movies are bad . 	The Fog is a so-so remake of a so-so movie , lacking scares , suspense or originality .
harry potter and the order of the phoenix Acaba soando mais como preparativo para os acontecimentos dos dois ltimos captulos de uma srie que , de um modo ou de outro , ainda no trouxe motivos reais para desapontamentos . It feels like Charlie Brown getting ready to kick the football that Lucy 's holding . He 's sure she 's going to pull it away once again , but Charlie gives it another try anyway , because it 's there , and who knows , maybe this time will be different . Except for Radcliff and Staunton , nobody gets more than an extended cameo . [ The filmmakers ] have transformed J.K. Rowling 's garrulous storytelling into something leaner , moodier and more compelling , that ticks with metronomic purpose as the story flits between psychological darkness and cartoonish slapstick . Spicy new additions Imelda Staunton and Helena Bonham Carter stop the familiar flavours from growing stale , while Daniel Radcliffe finally gets his act ( ing ) together . There is a lot of story here , complex and compelling . Despite the smooth transition of the wondrous Potter mythology from Rowling 's pen to the screen -- thanks to the efforts of several talented filmmakers -- the gradually unfurling plot remains grounded in routine . Order of the Phoenix , the best of the series so far , has the laughs , the jitters and the juice to make even nonbelievers wild about Harry . The fifth in this unthinkably good franchise is the darkest yet and features fine work from a new writer and director , as well as a supporting cast which is nothing short of magical . By focussing the story on Harry ( a leaner and slightly meaner Daniel Radcliffe ) and his exploits , Yates dispenses with many of the novel 's subplots and is able to push the story forward , ominously foreshadowing the dark times to come . 	It 's not easy to take the longest Harry Potter book and streamline it into the shortest HP movie , but director David Yates does a bang up job of it , creating an Order of the Phoenix that 's entertaining and action-packed .
beyond the mat A surprisingly engrossing , behind-the-scenes look at some of wrestling 's current and former stars . Beyond the Mat studies the forces that drive men to continually climb in the ring to hurt each other -- the action may be choreographed , Blaustein emphasizes , but the blood is real . It may be more than you ever wanted to know about the subject of professional wrestling . So tired and dated . A gently and genuinely observed film whose subject is a garish , artificial display of mayhem . The wrestlers are cannier than Blaustein probably gives them credit for ; they seem to be offering up their backstage lives to him in ways that mimic the soppiest of melodramas , and he falls for it . Soft , repetitive to a fault , and narrated by its maker in tones of wistful awe that seem totally inappropriate to its subject . Unfortunately Blaustein is n't an experienced enough film-maker to make much of such material . Surprisingly candid , comprehensive and , most of all , emotional expos of the wrestling business . The first part of the film is more than worth the price of admission . 	Even if you are n't a fan , Beyond the Mat provides a riveting , perceptive look into the world of professional wrestling by taking a closer look at the people beneath the personas .
crouching tiger hidden dragon The class act of action movies . A truly stunning blend of classic Chinese martial-arts moviemaking and modern psychodrama . Our new century is n't very old yet , but the remaining 98 years will be hard pressed to find a more rapturous movie than Ang Lee 's sumptuous new triumph . Rare is a film of such incontestable quality and effervescent potency that the viewer immediately wants to watch it again . You need a roadmap to find the hidden masterpiece . With his latest film , Lee has created a lyrical fairy tale for adults , a sublime synthesis of martial arts action with dramatic sophistication . Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon will make you fall in love with film all over again . Despite scrupulous attention to expository detail , Lee fails to dramatize the conflict within Jen , or any of the characters . A film that works on many levels , be it action , drama , or romance , Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon is recommended viewing for anyone who likes their martial arts with some heart and soul . Just might be one of the best kung fu movies ever made . 	The movie that catapulted Ang Lee into the ranks of upper echelon Hollywood filmmakers , Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon features a deft mix of amazing martial arts battles , beautiful scenery , and tasteful drama .
clueless Totally girly-girly ! An unquestionably dismal look at the wealthy teen 's life in the mid-'90s . This movie is so five minutes ago , but still fun ! As appealing as Alicia Silverstone is ( and she possesses that ethereal 'star quality ' which is sadly lacking in many of today 's up-and-coming performers ) , her presence ca n't quite elevate this breezy comedy to the level of a modern classic . Silverstone guilelessly glides through her role like a Pam-sprayed charge card . Though this drifts at times as storytelling , it 's mainly lightweight but personable fun . ... although the movie is n't quite the classic it 's been made out to be , it 's a mindlessly diverting way to kill 97 minutes . Snappy and clever film about a privileged Beverly Hills teenager . A fresh , disarmingly bright and at times explosively funny comedy well worth a trip to the mall , even if it eventually runs out of gas . A gem . 	A funny and clever reshaping of Emma , Clueless offers a soft satire that pokes as much fun at teen films as it does at the Beverly Hills glitterati .
1029830-witches The scenes of magic and mayhem are peppered with sly surprises , and Anjelica Huston plays the wildest wicked witch since Dorothy got back from Oz . Real darkness seethes beneath the `` Once upon a time '' surface , mostly due to Henson 's seemingly curious selection of the brilliant and audacious Roeg to direct . Filled with grotesque witches and mouse stunts , this is a wild fantasy for both children and adults . Harry Potter was never like this . The best thing about Nicolas Roeg 's film of Dahl 's book The Witches is its dark vision . Strange and scary enough to fascinate parents and offspring alike . It 's not a film for small children . But for precocious first-graders with a warped sense of humor and an appetite for chills , thrills and spills , nothing could be better . Based on a Roald Dahl book , Nicholas Roeg 's The Witches is a film surprisingly faithful to the creepiness of the original . It is a nice fantasy and deserves some credit for not aiming specifically at a youth or teenage market . It is just a decent fantasy film that is there for whatever audience it finds . A truly magical film from Nicolas Roeg that finally gets undermined by muppetry . A wildly entertaining fairy tale . 	With a deliciously wicked performance from Angelica Huston and imaginative puppetry by Jim Henson 's creature shop , Nicolas Roeg 's dark and witty movie captures the spirit of Roald Dahl 's writing like few other adaptations .
obvious child Quirky , funny and GUTSY . Laughter may be the best medicine , but in `` Obvious Child , '' it 's also a helluva cure for dealing with a serious topic . Like Woody Allen 's early , New York City set comedies , only raunchier , more potty-mouthed and more like TV . Slate is terrific . I want to hug this movie . It 's a well-written rom-com with rascally charm , a modest story of an awkward Brooklyn girl making a go of life . Slate fits the role so well that her persona already seems fully formed , like Athena bursting from the skull of Louis C.K . The movie does n't present itself as some kind of secular equivalent of a moral lesson . It 's not callous or weepy or preachy - or self-consciously not those things . It 's a naturally told story . A cross between a Woody Allen farce and a one-woman show by Sarah Silverman . Obvious Child succeeds as a concise comedy unafraid of quarter-life malaise , an affecting debut from an emerging talent , and a star vehicle for Jenny Slate . Obvious Child is such an anomaly , such a shaggy and brave black sheep , that it 's hard not to embrace -- especially when it 's got puffy red eyes and mucous all over its face chanting `` love sucks . '' 	Tackling a sensitive subject with maturity , honesty , and wit , Obvious Child serves as a deeply promising debut for writer-director Gillian Robespierre .
all about steve A sad excuse for a film which meshes too many ideas without sticking to one , leaving Sandra Bullock once again flailing in a ridiculous role . This is easily one of the worst films I 've ever had to review . The film 's complete failure to engage on any level , much less comedic , lies entirely at the feet of Bullock . Although I laughed at a couple of slapstick gags , the rest of this comedy did n't seem very funny to me . There 's no footing in reality . Nothing about it feels authentic : not the blathering Mary , not the lifeless secondary characters , not the bromide-happy dialogue or the plot that twists less often than it spasms . All About Steve is offensive , absurd and pointless . One might be tempted to call it perfectly dreadful if it did n't seem inappropriate to utter the word 'perfect ' anywhere within miles of it . An interminable series of gags based around the shrillest , most obvious characters imaginable . A painfully bland , vapid , irritating and consistently preposterous comedy that 's low on laughs and satirical bite . It fails at everything it attempts to do . There 's simply no point for it to exist . 	All About Steve is an oddly creepy , sour film , featuring a heroine so desperate and peculiar that audiences may be more likely to pity than root for her .
premonition May I suggest that it 's time to declare a moratorium on movies about time ? One of the film 's weak links is the casting of Sandra Bullock . ... For a woman who has supposedly lost her husband , she displays very little emotion . By the time the requisite , and somewhat silly twist end comes around , we as an audience no longer care . I just returned from the immediate future , like two minutes from now , and I have a strong feeling I 'm about to give this movie a big thumbs down . A lethargic thriller that appears to just give up several times over , even foregoing the twist ending it seems destined for . Somber but soulful , Premonition has a strong dramatic performance by Sandra Bullock and a gimmicky plot that does n't grate until the end . Not exactly a thriller , never quite a chiller , hardly suspenseful , it is , at best , a Sandra Bullock vehicle made of vanishing vapors . Stronger style and atmosphere would have greatly benefited a pic that seems to abandon its own supernatural aspects to sheer plot mechanism . Pay real money to see this feeble fiasco only if you 're in the mood for Groundhog Day without the laughs . The scene in front of the funeral home where Bullock goes over the edge is inappropriately hilarious . 	Overdosing on flashbacks , and more portentous than profound , the overly obtuse Premonition weakly echoes such twisty classics as Memento , The Sixth Sense , and Groundhog Day .
10010694-season of the witch Stop me if you 've heard this one . A priest , an altar boy , two Crusaders , and a con artist walk toward an abbey with a suspected witch in tow . Makes The Last Airbender look like Avatar . Worst . D & D session . Ever . Is `` Felson '' not a moniker more appropriate to a sitcom second banana than a fierce warrior ? Did either Cage or Sena even bother reading Bragi F. Schut 's patchwork script , before adjusting the wig , flicking on the camera and cashing the pay cheques ? While certainly no Witchfinder General , it does n't deserve to be burned at the stake . Despite some terrific locations in Hungary and the Austrian Alps , this ho-hum 14th-century history lesson remains routine and unconvincing right up to its all-hell-breaks-loose CGI-heavy finale . Guns are fun in movies , but bashing about with broadswords speaks to the 12-year-old in all of us . Season of the Witch suffers from a general laziness . After a while , the movie tires of the witch business and trots out a plot twist that permits the effects department to spend money . 	Slow , cheap-looking , and dull , Season of the Witch fails even as unintentional comedy .
proof The story 's genial unpretentiousness has been darkened and weighed down , and what 's left is less than prime . Sadly , the impact of the clever parallelogram of emotional and philosophical concerns in Auburn and Rebecca Miller 's screenplay is deadened by the director 's overly literal -- mechanical -- cinematic interpretation . The result , like so many stout travellers from stage to screen , is respectable . Stolidly , bloodlessly , yawningly respectable . Engaging in a way that math rarely is . Paltrow played Catherine on stage in London and is at her best here since she last performed under Madden 's direction in Shakespeare in Love . Proof is a very emotional and engaging movie almost all the way through , but it loses it at the end . Resolutely uncinematic , Auburn 's tale of a maybe mathematics prodigy feels thin and underpopulated . Some plays are better left on the stage . Paltrow is pretty commanding , even if Madden pushes things toward airlessness by keeping the camera so tight . The anguish on that lovely , haggard face -- you 're right there with her , yearning for the moment you both can finally breathe . Gwyneth Paltrow plays the daughter of a famous dead mathematician in John Maddens terribly serious film adaptation of the much-admired Broadway play . Paltrow overcomes her ingenue actress image and does a good job with a role of a deeply troubled and perhaps brilliant woman , the daughter of a schizophrenic mathematician who was one of the great lights of modern mathematics . 	Gwyneth Paltrow and Anthony Hopkins give exceptional performances in a film that intelligently tackles the territory between madness and genius .
cast away Tom Hanks does a superb job of carrying Cast Away all by himself for about two-thirds of its running time , but is n't much helped by additional characters in the opening and closing sequences . Cast Away is a sad movie of the sort that Hollywood almost never makes : not three-hankie sad , not 'go have yourself a good cry ' sad , but the kind of thing that , if you let it in deep enough , can send a shudder to your very soul . For a critic quite prepared to dismiss the movie as Robinson Blew So , this comes as the season 's most delightful surprise . Es un filme sobrecogedor y motivante que dejar una honda huella emocional en quien tenga la oportunidad de experimentarlo An unforgettable film . Hanks and his collaborators deserve all the praise and awards that surely will come their way . One more project like this ( or Gump ) and this could be the best actor/director team since DeNiro and Scorsese . ... a good title , good acting , good effects , plentiful bonus features , three mediocre stories , and a volleyball . And they say 2000 was a bad year for films ! Remains one of the more vividly transporting films I 've come into contact with . It 's heartbreaking , darkly comedic , bravely observational , and ultimately , pure emotional poetry . In addition to Hanks ' superb acting , amazing cinematography by Don Burgess helps lift this movie above the ordinary . 	Flawed but fascinating , Cast Away offers an intelligent script , some of Robert Zemeckis ' most mature directing , and a showcase performance from Tom Hanks .
bread and tulips Unfulfilling and relentlessly saccharine . See Venice and sigh . As for star Licia Maglietta , the appeal of the film is nearly all in her presence . As summer ends , this delightfully frothy Italian romantic comedy is a beguiling getaway for mature audiences . I ca n't recall ever having seen this actress [ Maglietta ] , but here she commands the screen . sweet but uneven Every one of the characters is caught up in the real world of missed opportunities and broken souvenirs . An airy , scrumptious valentine of a romantic fable . As a charmer the movie is not a klutz . Some mild excesses of whimsy are to be forgiven , even savored , like nibbling a few extra olives on your plate of antipasti . An endearing romantic daydream , but misses the bus where matters of reality are concerned . 	Bread and Tulips is a sweet-natured comedy offering gentle , escapist entertainment .
youngheart The group 's enthusiasm , natural talent and undeniable chutzpah effort-lessly translates to the screen in Stephen Walker 's winning new documentary . A choir full of ( very ) old people get down with the rock music . Sweet , funny , touching stuff . The Young @ Heart Chorus has all the characters -- and character -- that any documentarian could ask for . Inspirational , funny , sad and very satisfying . If this film were any more heartwarming , your chest would melt . How can we be uplifted by a James Brown classic when the singer in fact does n't feel good but actually has a painful-looking spine condition ? Heartwarming and heartbreaking in equal measure , Young At Heart is a good antidote for cynicism . Ya got ta love these guys ! How could you NOT love these guys ? The chorus members in Young @ Heart do n't trash hotel rooms or bed groupies . But they also are n't going gently into that good night . The film 's appeal is at once sentimental and perverse : It 's not every day that you get to see a 92-year-old woman soloing on 'Should I Stay Or Should I Go . ' 	Full of endearing characters , this doc about a choir of `` seniors behaving badly '' is uplifting and delightful .
from up on poppy hill From Up On Poppy Hill finds Goro Miyazaki sitting much more comfortably in the director 's chair , but fans of Studio Ghibli 's fantasy epics may find this fanciful delight to be lacking the familiar magic . Joyously warm and gentle ... though perhaps too gentle to be entirely satisfying . What limits From Up on Poppy Hill is its seeming whitewashing of some tough subjects , including the unseen consequences of war and the role of women in post-war Japan . Soft , warm animation and resonant reflections on death , moving on and growing up ca n't fully overcome slighter plot points and erratic music choices . [ A ] study of how the tolls of war reverberate through generations . it 's a gem of classical 2D imagery that stands out in a world turned upside down by the digital revolution . Lovely , sentimental , but a conventional nostalgic melodrama that had no compelling reason to be filmed as anime Winsome , winning entry from Studio Ghibli , with a nostalgia-suffused , unstressed ambiance that packs a potent if subtle appeal . From Up on Poppy Hill may be able to boast about its outstanding music and smooth animation , but it 's far too flat to leave much of an impression . A sweet but rather bland coming-of-age story . 	Gentle and nostalgic , From Up on Poppy Hill is one of Studio Ghibli 's sweeter efforts -- and if it does n't push the boundaries of the genre , it remains as engagingly lovely as Ghibli fans have come to expect .
bridge to terabithia Terabithia picks up a lot of emotional punch as it rolls along , and anyone leaving the theater with a dry eye should be checked for a pulse . Bridge to Terabithia is a real anachronism in today 's family-movie landscape , if for no other reason than it simply and accurately portrays the interior life of adolescents . Enchanting , transcendent and profoundly moving , Bridge to Terabithia is a masterpiece . Despite an odd choice to inject computer animated wonder , Bridge to Terabithia is ... a loving tribute to the best and the worst moments of adolescence ... Haphazardly adapted from Katherine Paterson 's popular 1977 coming-of-age children 's book , `` Bridge to Terabithia '' is a problematic movie held together by its charming child actors . There 's enough emotional truth in Bridge to Terabithia to make it a worthy addition to big-screen children 's literature , if not to propel it into the realms of a childhood classic . The makers go easy on the special effects and the picture has a tragic dimension that young children will find upsetting . But if they watch it in the right spirit , and the right company , it could prove emotionally enlarging . Beloved kids ' novel makes it to the big-screen unscathed , with very real childhood relationships , surreal special effects and a big weepie ending . While the filmmakers have beefed up fantasy elements from the book , this is a very human story . daleko od eskapizma 	Bridge to Terabithia is a faithful adaptation of a beloved children 's novel and a powerful portrayal of love , loss , and imagination through children 's eyes .
boyhood Once again , Linklater achieves that easy-going , seat-of-the-pants realism . Boyhood is a quiet marvel that follows its characters with a fondness that builds and a necessary distance that aches in its verisimilitude . It 's a slow-burn drama that works well over its epic length , exploring the nuances of those around Mason rather than lurching for the dramatic spikes and revelations we normally associate with the mislabelled `` coming-of-age '' sub-genre of teen films . There is something quite extraordinary about Richard Linklater 's film as it depicts a fictional representation about growing up , family , relationships and life 's choices - using real time as its bookmark and calling card . It truly is an epic account of anyone's/everyone 's simple life story . Linklater here is full of optimism , as always , but he remains a doggedly unsentimental realist . These are people you know , maybe people like you . An instant classic twelve years in the making , striking in its tender tone and stunning in its cumulative emotional impact . A work that easily breaks free of the shackles of `` just a gimmick '' and emerges as a superb motion picture in its own right . Boyhood is a one of a kind experience . 	Epic in technical scale but breathlessly intimate in narrative scope , Boyhood is a sprawling investigation of the human condition .
10011016-messenger This character piece may be for the arthouse , but the artistry has a gaping wound , large enough to allow credulity to seep out . Foster leaves you hoping that Will finds his way home . Viewers will appreciate the work ethic up there on the screen , and how it finds a number of fresh and telling angles on the complexities of the grieving process . A shoddy , shouty bore . A piece of flummery . At its center lie three accomplished performances , by Ben Foster , Woody Harrelson and Samantha Morton , that are not to be missed . A story that strays about without finding its center . A stunning debut , an effective , expertly-made and performed drama about the common human ability to deal with tragedy and loss in unique , unpredictable ways . Gripping but uneven home front war drama . Harrelson gives what might be a career performance as a jaded mentor who tries to conduct each notification using a well-rehearsed set of rules of engagement . Like `` The Hurt Locker '' , calculated to sell tickets to tea-baggers and Moveon.org alike . Informed by the Clint Eastwood/Paul Haggis school of bad didactic screenwriting . 	A dark but timely subject is handled deftly by writer/directer Owen Moverman and superbly acted by Woody Harrleson and Ben Foster .
1006234-dracula Dracula deserves its status as a classic , although one might be tempted to append the word 'lesser ' to that label . Dracula ( 1931 ) is one of the earliest classic American horror films from Universal Pictures - an acclaimed masterpiece directed by Tod Browning ... the film survives as a classic horror tale largely because of Lugosi 's distinctive portrayal as Dracula . Lugosi 's seminal performance and the striking opening act are what distinguish Browning 's version of the classic tale . ... a motion picture for people who love motion pictures , their history , and their evolution . It is a self-recommending classic . The opening scenes , set in Dracula 's castle , are magnificent -- grave , stately , and severe . But the film becomes unbearably static once the action moves to England . While Lugosi is of course memorable , do n't forget Helen Chandler 's Mina , who communicates more through her eyes than virtually any other actress caught on film . uma pena que o vampiro absoluto das telas , Bela Lugosi , no tenha estrelado um filme perene como a lenda em que ele se tornou . Creepily beautiful . After Lugosi , all vampire performances are doomed to be compared against him as either homage or departure . 	Bela Lugosi 's timeless portrayal of Dracula in this creepy and atmospheric 1931 film has set the standard for major vampiric roles since .
sweet smell of success A cruelly cynical take on the seamy side of New York City 's swinging nightclub life . Its pleasures are almost obscenely abundant . James Hill 's production , locationed in Manhattan , captures the feel of Broadway and environs after dark . A fizzingly clever big-city satire and deeply strange late noir classic . Mackendrick 's nighthawk landscape is compellingly , poetically bleak . With some of the sharpest dialogue ever cut in Hollywood , only on the most superficial level is this a movie about gossip and publicity . We 're talking show business . We 're talking America . We 're talking cast-iron classic . A lean , mean amorality tale that still goes down like a cookie laced with arsenic . Uses every aspect of filmmaking to perfection . ... one of the most lacerating and vicious visions of the predatory urban world in the American cinema ... One of the sharpest and corrosively perceptive films to emerge from Hollywood . 	Sweet Smell of Success boasts a top-notch cast , sharp direction , atmospheric cinematography , and an appropriately jazzy score , making it one of the best noir crime thrillers ever made .
passion of the christ If Jesus actually received the amount of punishment dished out in this film , he would have been dead three times over before arriving at Calvary . The Passion of the Christ is so relentlessly focused on the savagery of Jesus ' final hours that this film seems to arise less from love than from wrath , and to succeed more in assaulting the spirit than in uplifting it . Il est intressant de voir que le film s'attarde surtout dmontrer la mesquinerie de l'homme plutt que de glorifier le christianisme . With a pervasive NC-17 level of gore , its simplistic and relentlessly pedantic but effective with its single theme that Christ suffered . But where is its spirituality ? I found the film more numbing than moving , as if the transformation it charted was not from human to divine , but from man to carcass . Mel Gibson 's labor of love about the death of Jesus is incredibly labored , recasting his Crucifixion in crimson , slo-mo cliches . If this were any other film and any other subject , The Passion would have been slapped with an NC-17 rating faster than you can say `` Council of Nicaea . '' 'The Passion of the Christ ' invigorates because Gibson 's artistic choices have serious theological implications . A very specific film made for a very specific audience . Gravely intense and the work of a man as deeply committed to his subject as one could hope for or , for that matter , want . 	The graphic details of Jesus ' torture make the movie tough to sit through and obscure whatever message it is trying to convey .
princess diaries 2 royal engagement This Princess falters before getting to the altar . Once that near-magical event happens ( especially , if you 're a little girl ) , the kingdom is enchanted once again . A prime example of the `` sequel slump '' While there 's nothing in Princess Diaries 2 to offend your eyes or ears , there 's plenty to insult your intelligence . It 's the movie equivalent of a sticker scrapbook filled with rainbows and unicorns , featuring guaranteed girl-pleasers like a princess , a romance and a slumber party . Ought to charm its loyal subjects , or at least their less demanding little sisters . A cheesy-looking sequel to 2001 's sleeper hit that lacks anything resembling genuine charm , wit , or heart . Princess Diaries 2 has plenty of returning cast members and the same competent if bland direction . Yet why does it feel like an infomercial for the soundtrack ? This threadbare sequel takes a page from such revisionist fairy tales as Shrek and Ella Enchanted , movies that assume we 've grown so weary of the same old Cinderella story that they go out of their way to invert the formula . Lazily plotted Bachelorette for tweens . We all love a good fairy tale , but the enchantment is missing in this predictable sequel . 	Anne Hathaway and Julie Andrews bring charm and elegance to the movie , but there 's not enough material for them to work with in this sequel .
margin call There have been better movies set in the financial world , but for a rather contained ensemble drama , it generally works , though it 's no Inside Job Margin Call is a compelling human drama that is n't just about numbers . `` Margin Call '' is a terrific film no matter what side of the police line the viewer is on , with a fantastic cast and sharp and smart writing that attempts to explain what went wrong without getting bogged down in details . How good is J.C. Chandor 's debut ? So good I was ready to buy what he was selling even though I did n't entirely understand it . This may be the first post-2008 feature film to dramatize the crisis itself , rather than using it as a backdrop for an outraged harangue against the banks . A taut , smart and remarkably timely thriller ... Chandor 's impressive debut film does indeed capture its cast of high-powered bankers as human beings , and features one of Kevin Spacey 's best screen performances as the firm 's middle-aged ace salesman . Chandor 's script fuels intensity by packing the drama into a tight window . With a script void of shouting matches and preachy monologues , J.C. Chandor makes the brave decision not to demonise these characters . In what could arguably be called - sadly - a season of consumerism comes `` Margin Call , '' a realistic , dialogue-driven drama about the unraveling of an investment bank within 24 hours . 	Smart , tightly wound , and solidly acted , Margin Call turns the convoluted financial meltdown of '08 into gripping , thought-provoking drama .
replacements Often entertaining despite itself , thanks mostly to a screenful of surprisingly engaging performances . Surprisingly likable . Plenty of red meat here but also so much script rot that both ought to be recalled by the FDA . Silly , diverting . So thick with cliches that it 's almost suffocating . The games , while plenty rowdy and profane , are n't very realistic . Lightweight but likeable football story . Has no real surprises , but the audience has fun . While there 's plenty in this movie that 's mildly funny , The Replacements is nothing more than a high school romp . The Replacements does have its moments . There just are n't enough of them . 	The cliched characters and obvious outcome make all the fun and excitement amount to nothing .
revenge of the nerds Advances an interesting pro-diversity agenda : The 'nerds ' are n't just brainy geeks but outcasts , including a flamboyant gay black man . ( When big block letters that spell NERDS are set on fire outside the nerd house , you 're reminded of burning crosses . ) One of the landmark tits and ass films of the eighties , and surprisingly a comedy with a lot of humor and even some heart . The real secret of this movie 's success lies in the charm of its leading men . Racy college comedy has heart ; OK for older teens . Simple-minded romp about a group of freshmen outcasts does n't qualify for the dean 's list , but Revenge of the Nerds shows more than enough smarts to deserve passing grades . A questionable classic at best . It 's one of the great unfathomable mysteries of Hollywood that this unspeakably awful comedy was successful enough to spawn no less than three ( count 'em ) sequels . There is a theory that every Hollywood star has a turkey or two in their closet , so today , step forward Anthony Edwards , star of the hit TV series ER . The ultimate 80 's teen comedy ... Carradine and Edwards are gut-bustingly hilarious ! The only worthy successor to Animal House . 	Undeniably lowbrow but surprisingly sly , Revenge of the Nerds has enough big laughs to qualify as a minor classic in the slobs-vs.-snobs subgenre .
gonzo-the-life-and-work-of-dr-hunter-s-thompson Much like the man himself , it 's quite a piece of work . Gonzo shows the man , warts and all . Director Alex Gibney has plundered 200 hours of audiotapes , hundreds of photos and personal testimony from an impressive roster of Thompson 's colleagues and family to put together an even-handed portrait . It 's a fond warts-and-all portrait of a writer who stands alongside Jack Kerouac and Walt Whitman as an American original . Docu walks a fine line between critical evaluation and mythic canonization of Thompson , but it sheds significant light on the emergence of new journalistic style and on the power of reporters to set the political agenda and cause social change . My favorite thing about Alex Gibney 's entertaining documentary , Gonzo : The Life and Work of Dr. Hunter S. Thomspon , is that it makes me want to read what Thompson wrote . This movie has confirmed my suspicion that people need to leave Hunter S. Thompson 's story alone for a while . At its worst , the film takes a long detour into Thompson 's admiration for an utterly banal 1974 Carter speech ( The Powerful were sticking it to The People again ) as a way to make us feel virtuous , political and leftish . As a diverting documentary , Gonzo lives up to its subject matter - it is indulgent and witty , filled with a thousand little insights and ultimately sad . Thompson seemed obscure to his family , cartoonishly overblown to his friends . ... A film that preserves Thompson 's words verbatim but only occasionally taps into the restless spirit that fueled them . 	While not the comprehensive profile of the man that his die-hard fans might have hoped for , Gonzo remains an insightful introduction to the life of rebellious writer Hunter S. Thompson and his influences .
then she found me Unexpectedly sharp , light and appealing ; a testament to Hunt 's skills behind the camera . Helen Hunt makes an impressive directorial debut and gives a defiantly vanity-free performance in this engaging drama that also features strong support from Colin Firth and Bette Midler . Hunt 's debut as a film director makes me glad she found us . Suffers from , if anything , a lack of pure confidence in the story , the actors or the audience . What ought to be a bittersweet movie about a woman 's momentary unraveling feels like a workout class : Cardio melodrama . The material is n't much different from a Woody Allen film , but , unfortunately , the execution is . Hunt , who also co-wrote the screenplay from Elinor Lipman 's novel , scrupulously avoids anything that smacks of TV sitcom humor . This is admirable , but the result is one of the glummest romantic comedies in recent memory . Clearly committed to the material , Hunt extracts exquisitely subtle performances from her accomplished cast-especially Firth and Midler-in this self-assured directorial debut . A bittersweet combination of comedy and drama , this sensitive film has enough strong material in it to make it worth seeing , even if it sometimes feels under-developed and a little too heart-tugging One of the best , most intelligent movies out there right now . 	A threadbare story anchored by strong performances , Then She Found Me is a mostly successful directorial debut by Helen Hunt .
we are the best Lukas Moodysson makes a sweet , spirited return to form with this utterly delightful evocation of early teenage life . Although the movie often goes cross-eyed trying to figure out how to slip out of scenes , it retains joy and a rich sense of curiosity , brought to life through three terrific lead performances . We Are the Best ! seems like [ Moodysson 's ] clearest vision to date . The film 's surface is as spiky as its protagonists ' hair and wardrobe , but the overall effect can only be described as downright endearing . Sweet-spirited and sometimes meandering but always working in the service of its young protagonists ' perspective . Era-specific but never nostalgic , tender but never sentimental , We Are the Best ! , like all good films about teenage girls , finely illuminates the emotional extremes of this tumultuous development stage . Three female teenagers trying to stick together in a world that is stacked against them in Stockholm , circa 1982 . A joyous celebration of youth , friendship and rebellion Three girls , three chords in three acts , that 's 'We Are the Best , ' an invigorating coming-of-age comedy perfectly capturing the electrifying jolt punk rock instills in teens looking to expel their anger and frustration . It portrays the kind of rush of unfettered , probably crap inspiration that one relishes before self-criticism and self-doubt kicks in . 	Sweet , empathetic , and shot through with a palpable joy , We Are the Best ! offers a tender tribute to the bittersweet tumult of adolescence .
el aura Visually , the film is almost perfect , with a weird , expressionistic sensibility considerably more sophisticated than the low-fi street shooting of Nine Queens , while the imaginative piano score trickles between pastoral harmony and primal discord . ... sublime psychological thriller ... The film 's taciturn observer , played by Ricardo Darin ( the strutting con man of Nine Queens ) , delivers perhaps the most inward performance of the year . The moody ambience suggests noir writers David Goodis and Jim Thompson ... Infused with a whiff of the outsider 's stale regret . The Aura is richer and less showy than Nine Queens , and it lifts off from the gangster genre to contemplate deeper mysteries . Reminiscent of Antonioni 's The Passenger in its obsession with fate and choice . In the end , the film 's bigger challenge is n't its length , or its deliberate pace : It 's that it 's overly freighted with symbolism and meaning . It 's intriguing and absorbing , this thriller about a lonely taxidermist caught up in a shooting accident , a case of mistaken identity and a heist . The movie 's mood is haunting , and its central image of a man able to shed his morality as easily as an old raincoat hints at a filmmaker who had deeper concerns than mere thrills . The Aura holds together as a dreamy variation on Reservoir Dogs ' heist-gone-wrong fatalism and the know-thyself confrontations of David Mamet 's Homicide . 	The Aura is a highly original and cerebral thriller that maintains its suspense from start to finish .
touch-the-sound Evelyn Glennie hosts a surrealistic ride through the waves of her preternatural percussion as she invites the audience to feel as they hear . The movie makes an interesting addition to what could become Riedelsheimer 's evolving and extraordinary gallery of movies that bring the creative process to life . We 're led to experience her life as she does -- as an adventure in which setbacks are not challenges , but illuminations of untracked paths . An often-lovely impressionistic look at the life of a famous avant-garde percussionist who generates a wonderful world of sound , despite being deaf . A feast for the senses . The film is a paean to the variety of sound in our world , sound that we experience very differently from how Evelyn Glennie does . It will be frustrating if you expect narrative and linear development . But if you take it on as a new point of view , valuable even if you do n't completely comprehend it yet , Touch the Sound is worth the trip . This 'sound journey ' ( as the subtitle of the film calls it ) has much to like and recommend . It does n't help when Glennie tries to elucidate her feelings about nature and music in holistic , broad strokes that border on nonsense . Does n't touch Glennie 's greatness . 	Not only does this documentary introduce viewers to Glennie , it gives them a taste of how she perceives the world .
best of enemies 2015 Some may argue outside events - antiwar protests , civil unrest - are pushed to the background , but this is a documentary about hugely erudite , larger-than-life personalities . It goes down easy enough , and in this day and age , waiting until the end credits to include the obligatory Jon Stewart clip classifies as restraint . What followed [ in the debates ] was not so much a clash of well-articulated ideas as a clash of highly articulate persons who regarded ideas as ammunition . The bruises inflicted that summer are now visible daily on so many channels , but they 're often inflicted by combatants who are far less mighty . The on-camera clashes between William F. Buckley Jr. and Gore Vidal are vividly and entertainingly recounted in this fascinating documentary . Best of Enemies is a spellbinding story , a poignant tale of foibles among greatness , and a vivid portrait of events that were like the year they occurred -- a stark line between what was , and what thereafter would be . The two men made serious policy discussions wickedly entertaining and decidedly personal , and Neville and Gordon knew that they had a gold mine in the debate footage that is the centerpiece of their movie . The film positions those debates as a harbinger of the ideological sword-crossing that has become a staple of TV news . Except what we have now , as opposed to the Vidal-Buckley confrontations , is a lot more yammery than eloquent . Watching the modern day clips , you keenly feel the loss of both Vidal and Buckley , although this riveting , impressively crafted and thought-provoking film at least provides a fitting tribute . For American viewers of an intellectual/historical persuasion , there could scarcely be any documentary more enticing , scintillating and downright fascinating than Best of Enemies . 	Smart , fascinating , and funny , Best of Enemies takes a penetrating -- and wildly entertaining -- look back at the dawn of pundit politics .
what would jesus buy Watch it , then cut back on your credit-card purchases and say Hallelujah ! to Reverend Billy . Genuine and meaningful provocateurs like Talen are vital , and his message is a glad one to anymore who abhors the WalMart-ification of America . My take is that it should be renamed the Church of Stop Yelling at Me Because You 've Made Your Point . One of the producers of What Would Jesus Buy ? was Morgan Spurlock , and the film is very much in the spirit of his Super Size Me . These bits of information could have been shocking in about 1940 , 1980 and 1990 . But by now , Americans who do n't know could n't care less . A comical cry in the silent night against , as George Burns ' old song put it , the trend towards using people and loving things - instead of using things and loving people . What Would Jesus Buy ? is a wonderful film . It 's a must-see pre-Christmas , or at any time of the year . What Would Jesus Buy ? is one of those all-too-common issue-docs that 's so clear about its point that it 's practically pointless . Obvious or not , heeding Reverend Billy 's anti-Shopacolypse gospel could make your holidays a little simpler , sweeter , and saner . This Rob VanAlkemade film has a good title and no focus . 	WWJB is an eye opening doc about consumerism that manages to be both funny and informative .
compliance 2012 Morally complex look at human behavior leaves you shaking your head in disbelief The perfect companion piece to your copy of Fast Food Nation . Dowd 's performance -- showing Sandra 's eagerness to please the `` cop '' and her hesitancy to follow orders -- burns in the mind long after the movie 's over . Disturbing in that it feels so damn real . Impressively directed and superbly acted , this is a gripping and disturbing thriller , made all the more horrific by the knowledge that this actually happened over 70 times . It 's a creepy and frightening demonstration of the risks society faces when accepting authority without question . And it 's made visceral by the astonishing performances As disturbing as it is , it 's even moreso when you realize it 's based on true events . Zobel makes his setting feel immediate and real , from the gum-smacking employees to the dowdy manager who just wants to do the right thing . Compliance is a horror movie with no sudden frights , no gore , and not a single scream . It 's a surveillance video , capturing us with all our blemishes ; a reminder that how we see ourselves is so rarely in line with the truth Likely to spur discussions about workplace safety , employee rights and broader awareness of sexual predation , Compliance is also a suspenseful psychological drama for viewers prepared to tolerate its extremes . 	Anchored by smart , sensitive direction and strong performances , Complicance is a ripped-from-the-headlines thriller that 's equal parts gripping and disturbing .
harry potter and the prisoner of azkaban ... feels at once more magically childlike and grimly grown-up ... It 's the most moving and inventive live action children 's film in years ( and therefore , just as magical for adults , if not more ) . The third Harry Potter movie is the best yet , seemingly less dependent than its predecessors on cinematic gadgetry , and stronger in conveying its characters and story . While voluptuously bringing to luscious life the kid-lit world of witchcraft , wizardry and bizarre creatures , has script and plotting as bland as the Hardy Boys . ... there is very little about this bloated package that delivered anything of great impact , particularly its story-line ... This film tells the exact same story more effectively than J.K. Rowling . The Potter universe is finally imaged with magical perfection . Any chance Cuarn could re-do HP1 and HP2 ? Just about everything plays better this time . Rowling 's prose unwittingly resembles the monster books that try to eat the students . Those who feared the franchise might grow as stale as Batman or Alien need not worry , as Cuarn proves there is still a little magic left up Potter 's sleeve . 	Under the assured direction of Alfonso Cuaron , Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban triumphantly strikes a delicate balance between technical wizardry and complex storytelling .
best of youth For six hours that seemed more like two , I was wrapped up in a human drama that was also a historical drama and a genuine wonder of filmmaking . A brilliant , sprawling piece of cinematic art , and perhaps the best film of the year . An impassioned epic that sweeps up its characters in nearly 40 years of human drama and social history , intertwining the two with a master seamstress ' delicacy . It avoids the pratfalls of easy melodrama by maintaining a psychological distance from its characters ; there are never any obvious explanations for their choices or behaviors . Traces the quiet failures and proud struggles of everyday lives caught up like driftwood in the currents of history . . . conjures up an exultant , slice-of-life authenticity . All the pieces converge in a powerful rush during the second half . The Best of Youth is no masterpiece , but it has enough truthful , moving moments to make it worthwhile . Extraordinarily ambitious and effacingly accomplished , this is both an affecting domestic drama and a provocative political epic that is never anything less than intimate , intelligent and involving . When the movie concludes , you can talk about these characters as if you actually know them -- which wo n't be far from the truth . The movie has the addictive episodic intimacy of great TV . 	Earns its 6 hours running time by telling an engrossing story with compelling characters .
1142872-sky high An amiable and satisfying romp that will put a smile on the face of viewers young and old . ... as far as bringing a superhero angle to the real world , the Spider-Man franchise has done a more convincing job than this sitcom approach . If you thought Hogwarts was the only secret school for extraordinary kids , welcome to the amusing , yet cheesy Sky High . This inventive superhero movie hybrid ( The Incredibles meet the X-men via Harry Potter ) is one of the most entertaining family films of the summer . A derivative and unappealing comedy about superheroes and their sidekicks in training . Here , teen empowerment takes on a very literal form , even if events never stray far from the world as envisaged in a John Hughes movie . Just kind of a mildly entertaining footnote . ... achieves a miraculous level of kitchy zip thanks to its creative casting of Kurt Russell , Lynda Carter , and Bruce Campbell . 'Sky High ' includes enough funny scenes and colorful characters to hold the interest of adults and youngsters alike . Sky High is adolescent , in the best , age-appropriate sense of the word ; it 's like a John Hughes movie , but for tweens . 	This highly derivative superhero coming-of-age flick is moderately entertaining , family-friendly fluff .
santa clause 3 As a full-service holiday movie , The Santa Clause 3 : The Escape Clause gets you into the mood to shop early and often by making the North Pole look like a shopping mall with a never-ending school pageant . It 's like a Family Channel movie escaped and hid out in a movie theater . Nuance surely is n't Santa Clause 3 : The Escape Clause 's name , but its performances are pleasing % u2014 Martin in particular brings a smirky , self-centered glee to his role % u2014 and its story is n't condescending . It 's brisk and colorful , right on Bah , humbug . Mrs. Claus having a baby is creepy . At least we do n't see the birth , the sight of Mrs. Claus in stirrups would have been too much to bear . It 's all as genuine as tinsel and as stale as last year 's candy cane , but there are a few very mild pleasures , including Alan Arkin and Ann-Margret as Scott 's in-laws and a loony dance number with Short backed by elves . The characters are all two-dimensional , or maybe one , except Martin Short as Jack Frost . so bad , it makes me want to convert and celebrate Hanukah this year . The Santa Clause 3 is holiday filler , stuffed with unearned emotion and trite sentimentality . The good news is it runs just over and hour and a half , which means parents wo n't have to glance nervously at their watches . This Styrofoam snowman of a sequel overdoses on its own candy-cane-colored sugary cheer . 	Playing Jack Frost as an evil cross between Liza Minnelli and Liberace , Martin Short is a welcome presence , but this tired series continues drawing from its bag of bland gags and dumb slapstick .
to be and to have You wish it would have been a little more ambitious . One of the year 's most engaging films . More often than not you may find yourself unexpectedly smiling . Contains some of the most stirring footage I have ever seen on the act and art of teaching children . As quiet , patient and tenacious as Mr. Lopez himself , who approaches his difficult , endless work with remarkable serenity and discipline . At once a testament to the divine calling of education and a demonstration of the painstaking process of imparting knowledge . A deceptively simple French film about teaching that keeps enlarging as you watch it , becoming beautiful and inspiring in a way most films never touch . Beautiful documentary . To Be and to Have feels like a deep , sweet pull of spring water . The fly-on-the-wall method used to document rural French school life is a refreshing departure from the now more prevalent technique of the docu-makers being a visible part of their work . 	A small , sensitive , and moving portrait of a teacher and his students .
from russia with love Sean Connery 's second outing as James Bond became his personal favorite , and that of many Bond fans around the world . [ Blu-ray ] It has more in common spiritually with Le Carre than Fleming . Only after James Bond 's vulnerabilities have been further exploited than in `` Dr. No '' does he succeed . `` Russia '' is about as far as it gets from the biggest Bond , but it 's easily the best . Sophisticated ? Well , not really . But fast , smart , shrewdly directed and capably performed . ce deuxime opus continue d'exploiter avec un plaisir coupable les possibilits infinies de cet univers cinmatographique fonctionnant uniquement la testostrone The second Bond is one of the best in the series , due to the intriguing plot , sinister villains , and fabulously staged fight aboard the Orient Express . With a tight , witty script and unforgettable baddies , this is one of the very best entries in the series , stylishly cementing the formula -- for good or ill . The narrative is plodding , time has not been kind to set-pieces that were once so thrilling and now seem oddly perfunctory , and 007 's misogyny and casual slapping of several women is more than faintly repellent . Standing at the pinnacle of the series , From Russia with Love shows how good a Bond film can be when all the ingredients mesh . The best Bond ever . Period ! a James Bond movie with the sensibilities of a classic Cold War thriller 	The second James Bond film , From Russia with Love is a razor-sharp , briskly-paced Cold War thriller that features several electrifying action scenes .
other sister It pirouettes past problems , exuberantly celebrating two folks who fall in love . One of the most genuinely sweet love stories to come along in quite some time . Grotesquely sentimental , shamelessly manipulative and fundamentally bad . The press notes describe The Other Sister as 'uplifting ' and 'bittersweet ' ; a more accurate description would be 'insulting . ' The film pushes the outer limits of just how long anyone with a normal I.Q . can watch what should be a TV sitcom . Lacks the depth of thought this complex topic deserves . impresses with its hardy ability to tickle and tear its audience . The charming innocence in this unusual take on first love and first heartbreak gives THE OTHER SISTER its special quality . Beautifully acted ! A torturous endurance test ! 	Made-for-tv drama evokes anything but real emotion .
we are what we are 2013 despite the film 's aqueous motifs of rain , showers , floods and tears , here in the end blood runs thicker than water . We Are What We Are does n't waste time with cheap scares . Mickle keeps his story on a steady , slow simmer , transporting us minute by minute into the very heart of dread . `` We Are What We Are '' is such a patient , trusting film it may take you a while to figure out it 's a horror film . A rare example of a remake that is as good as , if not better , than the original . If , in the end , it does n't really work , there 's still plenty to admire in the gothic exploration of the timeless conflict between family tradition and modernity . A rich , dark horror movie with a pervasive atmosphere of dread and corruption . Stupendously dull : dull with that blend of overloaded effect and under-supplied affect that bad horror alone truly offers . There 's some fun to be had , as long as your idea of fun includes being grossed out . Remakes may get a lot of stick in Hollywood , as filmmakers can be accused of being somewhat lazy and uncreative in that regard . It is n't until the ending , which turns the squirm amplifier up to 11 and exceeded even my horrific expectations , that we finally see the story 's potential realized . 	A compelling story cleverly told , We Are What We Are quenches horror buffs ' thirst for gore while serving up serious-minded filmmaking and solid acting .
joan-rivers-a-piece-of-work `` A Piece of Work '' displays a comedian who is much savvier , much more vulnerable and frankly much funnier than we usually see on the small screen . I 'm neither a fan nor a nonfan , but I found her fascinating . Co-directors Ricki Stern and Annie Sundberg observe a year in the life of a woman who trailblazed for today 's female comics and remains as driven , hard-working and career-focused as ever . By the end of Stern and Sundberg 's portrait , you feel a great fondness for this tough cookie , who says she plans for her career to outlast George Burns ' -- who was still working in his mid-90s . A Piece of Work is not about revelation or expos . It is , instead , about Joan Rivers ' business . A compulsively watchable look at Rivers , show business and the price one pays to try to continue succeeding in it . Joan Rivers : A Piece of Work compellingly presents a strong woman with no shortage of anger , resentment and regrets -- but not an ounce of self-pity . The smart , funny and occasionally foul-mouthed documentary feature shows what Rivers has gone through in both her personal and professional life to get to this point . A funny and touching look at the self-crowned queen of comedy . The audience will feel like a fly on the wall in a no-holds-barred approach in which no topic is off limits . The filmmakers condensed more than a year of footage into 84 fascinating minutes ... 	Penetrating Rivers ' coarse image , this compelling documentary offers an honest , behind-the-scenes look at her career -- and at show business in general .
teeth Every time the scary music kicks in and another dumb male clutches his crotch , the theater bursts into uncertain giggles like a needed release [ The ] castration scenes are n't nearly as excruciating as his awkward timing and worse-than-obvious pacing . After Dawn comes to understand her remarkable genital gift , it 's pretty much one can-you-top-this gross-out scene after another . While probably too lurid and graphic for the mainstream 's tastes , it 's one of those films that has a genuine shot at acquiring cult classic status . It 's the stuff of primal phobia and nightmare , and , by presenting it in a way that makes us laugh as well as scream , Teeth actually takes it easy on us , no matter how explicit its presentation may be . Actor turned writer-director Mitchell Lichtenstein has bitten into one of the oldest myths in human folklore with Teeth , an imaginatively demented horror-comedy . Teeth is a solid first effort that makes you extremely curious about the filmmaker 's next project . Any movie about a girl with an actual vagina dentata had better be either very scary or very funny -- - or , preferably , both . Unfortunately , `` Teeth '' ca n't decide what it wants to be . The picture is unfocused and indistinct ; there 's a noncommittal quality to the filmmaking . Teeth hinges on one strong idea but does n't know quite where to take it , wobbling awkwardly between going for laughs and making its semi-delineated points . It 's like a punch in the face . 	Smart , original , and horrifically funny , Teeth puts a fresh feminist spin on horror movie tropes .
winnebago-man I think this is a disingenuous and shallow movie about a fairly interesting guy . [ Director Ben Steinbauer 's ] blend of exploitation and sincerity proves remarkably efficient , and helps illustrate how new media have democratized the arts . An earnest and occasionally poignant attempt to penetrate Rebney 's potent man-on-fire image and explore the impact of becoming an Internet sideshow . One of those thrilling instances where reality grabs a filmmaker by the lapels and drags him ( and us ) to unexpected places . [ A ] frustrating , borderline exploitative , madly entertaining documentary . The film ends with a semi-touching reaffirmation that everybody 's in showbiz . Absorbing and thought-provoking . ... an interesting and entertaining look into the life of Jack Rebney % u2013 if you can take the language . Steinbauer is as significant a character as his subject , and Winnebago Man emerges as a documentary as much about Rebney as the making of the film itself . The germ of Steinbauer 's apparently harmless , seemingly brainless doc goes right to the heart of the community-building aspect of the internet . 	Though it does n't quite answer all of the questions it raises , Winnebago Man is nevertheless a fascinating , hilarious , and surprisingly poignant look at a geniunely colorful internet celebrity .
becoming jane Becoming Jane is not as good as the best Austen films , but is much better than most mainstream movies on tap . An evocative portrait of an artistic temperament in defiance of propriety and of how , when such things are repressed , passion and personality are revealed in acts of private ritual and public performance . Becoming Jane has its felicities ... McAvoy and Hathaway work well together despite being saddled with dialogue that is not remotely in Austen 's league . But then again , what is ? Austen 's fans will recognise something of the author 's playful wit in the film , and forgive the dramatic liberties . The story is touching , the dialogue clever , the cast is great and the period detail is impressive . The director , Julian Jarrold , is comfortable with the material , and it is comfortable with him . The story quickly slips into Austen formula . An enjoyable appetizer , albeit for a meal that one could argue already has far too many courses . With a spot-on accent and altogether charming performance , Hathaway makes another convincing statement that she has grown , as a woman and as an actress . ... drops the ball almost immediately by emphasizing some seriously hackneyed plot twists and an overall atmosphere of predictability ... 	Although Becoming Jane is a well-crafted period piece , it lacks fresh insight into the life and works of Jane Austen . The film focuses too much on wardrobe and not enough on Austen 's achievements .
darjeeling limited [ The film ] has a kooky , laid back charm and is full of Anderson 's trademark themes and surreal eye candy , but ultimately , for all its offbeat wit and road-to-enlightenment send-ups , it feels a little thin . This is India as in one of those highly coloured paintings of a Hindu god . It 's absolutely gorgeous but every so often the train stops and we go outside , into the dusty yellow plains of Rajasthan , where reality is more present . The movie finds Anderson straining to peel away his mannerisms and respond to a world outside the ones he usually so meticulously designs . It eventually goes somewhere , but I 'm not sure where . It is a pleasant enough trip for the most part . Maybe Anderson needs to shoot someone else 's screenplay , to get outside his own head for a while and into another 's sensibility . It 's telling that his funniest and liveliest recent work was a commercial for American Express . Going to India and working with 2 writers do little to reenergize Anderson because he imposes the same themes ( broken families , lost souls ) , self-conscious approach and seriocomic sensibility on the new feature , further confined by being set on a train . Anderson creates a deluxe train set , for sure . All he neglects is building up an electric current or a head of steam . The melancholy is mostly notional and entirely unearned , bought ready-made in '60s songs Although The Darjeeling Limited pales in comparison to Anderson 's best film , Rushmore , it 's still a vast improvement over the director 's last and worst film , The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou . Finds Anderson back in fine form . 	With the requisite combination of humor , sorrow and outstanding visuals , The Darjeeling Limited will satisfy Wes Anderson fans .
queen and country Queen and Country is the film of an old master ( Boorman directed his first feature in 1965 ) who still has one of the most magical eyes in the business . Queen and Country is John Boorman 's autobiographical sequel to the wonderful Hope and Glory and a rather softer affair . Boorman grasps this opportunity in a war movie , to mount an incidental battle of his own internally against a national belief system without a soul - ridiculing a military hierarchy ranging from nasty to nonsensical , and pulled off with malevolent glee . Queen and Country is a truly entertaining flick forged by a master storyteller and the acting is polished , even in the smaller roles . A little too silly to be taken seriously , yet also too heavy to get all the laughs it very clearly craves , `` Queen and Country '' at least shows where Boorman 's schizoid , if less than wholly satisfying , sense of storytelling comes from . Once more unto the breach for writer-director John Boorman , who revisits the semiautobiographical characters from his superb WWII dramedy Hope and Glory in the beautifully bittersweet Queen and Country . Sweeping , witty , delightful and charming while brimming with warmth and humanism . Charming but mature post-WWII coming-of-age drama . Queen and Country is an entertaining and sympathetic guide to a lost world : a rite of passage that Britain was to find it could do without . The actual antics feel as tonally dated as the story , school-boyish shtick that went corny even before M*A*S*H married screwball shenanigans to wartime bleakness . 	Graceful and bittersweet , Queen and Country finds writer-director John Boorman revisiting past glories with warmth and wisdom .
mary shelleys frankenstein A sub par effort on one of the most frequently ill adapted stories ever made Branagh is very obsessed with chewing the scenery . So much so that he even manages to outdo Robert DeNiro . It 's an odd and uneasy mix , but the look of the film is dazzling and the performances are all first-rate . A weirdly muddled and embarrassingly over-the-top fiasco . Mr. Branagh is in over his head . He displays neither the technical finesse to handle a big , visually ambitious film nor the insight to develop a stirring new version of this story . For all its attention to detail and special effects , this version lacks the pathos and tragedy in the complex and ambivalent relationship between the father-creator and his creature-monster ; De Niro is misguided by director Branagh . Something more substantial than Hollywood 's typical , fitfully entertaining fluff . An interesting concept by Branagh , and a touching De Niro performance . It is hit-and-miss at times , a bit overwrought . Branagh does n't evoke terror , only repulsion . The Creature is on target , but the rest of the film is so frantic , so manic , it does n't pause to be sure its effects are registered . 	Mary Shelley 's Frankenstein is ambitious and visually striking , but the overwrought tone and lack of scares make for a tonally inconsistent experience .
bad lieutenant port of call new orleans For me , Ferrara and Keitel will always be the bad lieutenant , but Werner Herzog is probably the only director qualified to take this on , and his bizarre reboot has a fascination all of its own . Nicolas Cage 's deliriously unhinged portrayal of the film 's titular bent cop ranks right up there with his most memorably off-kilter performances . Herzog has found his ideal interpreter , a performer whose truth lies deep in the artifice of performance : ladies and gentlemen , Nicolas Cage , at his finest . There can only ever be one Bad Lieutenant : Harvey Keitel . Leave it to Werner Herzog to shoot a film in New Orleans with not one image of the French Quarter % u2013 and to harness Nicolas Cage 's Razzie-worthy acting into something meaningful . Cage returns to resplendently weird form . Cage dives headlong into the madness . It 's plain fun to see the actor give himself so fully to a character after several years of mostly forgettable action movies . The script has some scuzzy , jokey appeal , and I like it that instead of trying to hide them , Herzog tosses the movie 's ridiculous coincidences right in our faces as if daring us to duck . Because so much of the film is 'Oh , no , he 's not really going to do that OH YES HE IS ! ' fun , it 's impressive when Herzog suddenly starts taking it all seriously . A vividly acted and directed movie that stretches the boundaries of its genre and keeps you in its ever-unpredictable grip throughout . 	Befitting its unorthodox origins , this Bad Lieutenant benefits from Werner Herzog 's typically fearless direction and a delightfully unhinged Nicolas Cage in the title role .
mr-nobody At the 44-minute mark ( I checked ) of 'Mr . Nobody , ' I loudly sighed and asked , `` Good God , when the hell is this movie going to START ! '' This sprawling , ambitious sci-fi epic has a keen visual sense and a genuine interest in its deep topics . A thoughtful investigation into the different variations of all our lives : the daydreams , the anxious worst-case scenarios , the futile digressions that went nowhere . The only truly graspable notion the film can be said to put forth is one of increasingly tedious sci-fi-romantic genre busy-ness . Expect the unexpected . Try to answer the unanswerable question that writer-director Van Dormael poses . It is a worthwhile exercise . 'Mr . Nobody ' jumps around in a rather haphazard way , so it seems too chaotic most of the time . It 's creative , but quite perplexing . This big-budget English-language co-production shows that Europeans can compete in the sci-fi realm where high production values are king . With the film 's maddening circular structure and often thudding visual expositions , the experience of watching it is n't quite as enjoyable as a description might augur . As philosophy , Mr. Nobody seems sillier than it is profound . But in a parallel reality , more movies would have this degree of insane ambition . I relate to most movies by thinking about my past . Mr. Nobody has me evaluating my future . 	Mr. Nobody 's narrative tangles may bedevil as much as they entertain , but its big ambitions and absorbing visuals make for an intriguing addition to director Jaco Van Dormael 's filmography .
rois et reine Heroic and absurdist ... Taps into universal themes and archetypes . A highly unstable compound of melodrama and offbeat comedy that elicits more shrugs of confusion than sighs of satisfaction An emotional jigsaw that will keep you engrossed for days , maybe years . It 's hugely ambitious , with a sweeping range of character types , frequently shifting moods , stylistic flourishes of many kinds , and some mighty wry satire , aimed largely at the world of psychotherapy . Category-defying film that 's as smart and emotionally resonant as it is entertaining . There 's no ready capsule description of Kings and Queen , but its fluid , dynamic approach to melodrama and two compelling central performances create an impressive portrait of intertwined lives . An extraordinary work with depth , suspense , startling surprises , a unique combination of perspectives . the film proves , at the very least , that Desplechin is a director that garners due attention A welter of narrative complication and piercing drama shot through with a rich vein of absurdist humor . 	A dryly comic , stylistically brave film .
the place beyond the pines 2012 Basically a two act play , `` The Place Beyond the Pines '' attempts to be a clever puzzle but by the time the pieces are put into place you just want to sweep the whole thing off the table Derek Cianfrance leads us on a long , gritty , humanly flawed , densely emotional journey beyond the pines , but it 's hard not to recognize his brilliant vision and execution upon reaching the final destination . More thematically dense and ambitious than any crime film you 'll see this year and with an incredible ensemble , The Place Beyond the Pines is the kind of daring , adult drama that critics bemoan does n't get made nearly enough . An impressive piece of American filmmaking that 's every bit as compelling as it is annoyingly flawed . Mr. Cianfrance 's artistic vision catapults it above the limitations of contrivance and into a realm of constantly evolving shifts of tone and mood . The opening chapter with a compelling Ryan Gosling as a motorcycle-daredevil bank robber is the strongest element of this three-part drama about fathers , sons and fate . For the most part ... this is self-serious stuff , seething with ambition but almost devoid of spontaneity , and ultimately drained of genuine energy . Cianfrance creates a layered and moving portrait of working-class life , of people trying -- in many of the wrong ways -- to improve lives for themselves and the generations to come . The cumulative result is a picture that explores interesting themes and features solid to strong performances , but takes a few missteps along the way . ( Complete Content Details for Parents also available ) Cianfrance handles these large leaps in time with grace ; he does n't seem to leave anything out . His camera lingers generously over small moments so that no character gets lost in time . 	Ambitious to a fault , The Place Beyond the Pines finds writer/director Derek Cianfrance reaching for -- and often grasping -- thorny themes of family , fatherhood , and fate .
twilight saga new moon Gives fans what they want ( hot young dudes who do n't wear shirts ) , and might surprise a few people who did n't expect much New Moon nearly convinces non 'Twilight ' fans to embrace the teen franchise , but the final half hour is a stake through the film 's heart . The entire film seems to consist of three thoughts , cycled ad nauseum : Do n't leave me . I ca n't live without you . Make me a vampire . The screenplay feels padded and the different strands of the storyline do not mesh together seamlessly . Performances however , live up to expectations with Stewart and Pattinson exuding the magic that reminds us why we care so much about their relationship Those who ca n't get enough of either Stephenie Meyers ' 'Twilight ' novels or the first movie will no doubt be in hormone heaven over 'New Moon . ' For the rest of us , 'New Moon ' is 2 hours of cheesy , adolescent lust wrapped in werewolves ' clothing . ... despite a better than expected attempt by ( Chris ) Weitz , this is a story that lacks any real quality . Though an improvement over the first Twilight film , this sequel ( both based on Stephenie Meyer 's best-selling books ) drags and sputters , even in scenes meant to be infused with passion . Attempts by director Chris Weitz and screenwriter Melissa Rosenberg to inject more humor and lighten the tone go horribly awry . ( The supposedly `` serious '' dialogue is funnier than any of their pop-culture references and such . ) Romeo And Juliet it ai n't , but as a solid love story , New Moon gets the blood pumping . The Twilight Saga : New Moon plays like a 130 minute trailer for a movie called The Twilight Saga : New Moon . 	The Twilight Saga 's second installment may satisfy hardcore fans of the series , but outsiders are likely to be turned off by its slow pace , relentlessly downcast tone , and excessive length .
many adventures of winnie the pooh While Blustery Day won an Oscar , all three cartoons deserved it . Their charm is undeniable , though it mainly resides in the source material : the late 60s , when these were made , were Disney 's darkest days for craft and commitment . What a peculiar genius was A.A. Milne Milne 's distinctive voice retains its quality in with a clarity and integrity exceeding that of any other author Disney adapted . [ Blu-ray Review ] Lush and lovely to look at with a number of solid extras , `` The Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh '' on Blu-ray is easily recommended for both the young and the young at heart . The product of marketing genius , but at its core , this movie is entirely true to A.A. Milne 's wonderful storybook intentions . Quaint and fairly lovable kiddie adventures . ... it 's always nice , anytime , to renew one 's acquaintance with A.A. Milne 's delightful characters . One of the most charming of all Disney features ... like anyone else , when I see it I am swiftly and inexorably carried back to childhood , in accordance with the drippy clichs . 	Perhaps the most faithful of Disney 's literary adaptations , this cute , charming collection of episodes captures the spirit of A.A. Milne 's classic stories .
0878835 A spiky , sophisticated , grown-up comedy ... Please Give is a series of such set-piece scenes , a breezy , though not negligible , exploration of the contest between avarice and empathy . It 's a movie about guilt and family and what we mean when we say something is valuable , all of which are great subjects . Few American filmmakers create female characters as realistically funny , attractively imperfect and flat-out annoying as does Ms. Holofcener . [ The script is ] sharp and witty , but never forced , and features some of the best pure dialogue you 'll hear this year . Please Give proves that a film can be a spectacularly rewarding experience by just providing time spent with well-written , believable adult characters . While Please Give is a film about conscience , it 's also slyly funny , with piercing moments of insight and warmth . Nobody loves messy , human imperfections quite like writer-director Nicole Holofcener . Of a piece with Nicole Holofcener 's three other films -- talky , urbane ensemble flicks that elicit quiet but deeply sincere smiles and laughs , and just as often showcase hushed moments of pinprick vulnerability . Holofcener 's deliciously understated film takes a miniaturist 's pleasure in getting the details right . 	Nicole Holofcener 's newest might seem slight in places , but its rendering of complex characters in a conflicted economic landscape is varied , natural , and touching all the same .
mars attacks An over directed and poorly written farce ... A knowing and loving tribute to those cheesy B-movies . A holiday film with no conscience whatsoever , Mars Attacks ! will make you laugh , it will make you cry , and it definitely will make you wonder about Earth 's ability to defend itself in the face of higher life forms . Alien-invasion satire for older tweens and up . Como parodiar algo que j no se levava muito a srio originalmente ? Sadly empty exercise . There is plenty of imagination in Mars Attack ! , but the ideas prickle rather than tickle . Unlike Burton 's tribute to B-movie director Ed Wood or Mel Brooks ' parody Young Frankenstein , this movie 's self-awareness does n't work . Like a well-constructed bad painting , there is much to admire in the film , but the net effect leaves you dispassionate . Flaming white hot death to anyone involved in this crappy film ! 	Tim Burton 's alien invasion spoof faithfully recreates the wooden characters and schlocky story of cheesy '50s sci-fi and Ed Wood movies -- perhaps a little too faithfully for audiences .
we own the night ngaging , impressively directed crime thriller with a sharply written script and strong performances from its three leads . If Gray had put as much effort into his script as he puts into [ several ] scenes , he might have made a film to rival Scorsese or Cronenberg . As it is , he ( TM ) s tugging mightily on their coattails . haraktires poy tha mporoysan aneta na perasoyn arketo hrono akoma se skoteina syrtaria , mpas kai mporesoyn na skoteiniasoyn arketa oi idioi gia na metamorfothoyn se kati esto endiaferon an ohi diaforetiko A competent , quasi-profound but ultimately shopworn tale of familial loyalty , directed with television-drama flatness . At its core , it 's an exploration of the demands and obligations of brotherly love , staged with honesty , originality and a surprising spark of intelligence . You 'll want to get lost in the dark world of `` We Own the Night . '' Good performances from a great cast blend with an intriguing script in this adult thriller/melodrama . Gray assumes rather than dramatizes the depths of his characters , scanning for gravitas where there are only rickety clichs Takes enough interesting turns and twists to earn and keep your attention , all before an ending that sacrifices credibility for the sake of convenience . It 's not surprising , but it 's engaging enough that most patrons will likely cut the director some slack for the out-of-period details and convoluted plot contrivances that make the film seem at once sloppy and too neat . Gray is a far better director than he is a writer . He 's got the talent to make great movies . He just needs to stop trying to . 	Bland characters , clichd dialogue and rickety plotting ensure We Own The Night never lives up to its potential .
treasure planet It 's a fun adventure movie for kids ( of all ages ) that like adventure . Although there are some minor problems in the script and storytelling plus the characters seem assembled from the Disney cookie-cutter conveyor belt the kids wo n't mind . Treasure Planet is a handsome picture , with lots of nifty borrowings from the Star Wars galaxy , but it 's never particularly compelling as a story or as a vehicle for emotions . It 's no Lilo & Stitch , not even close . It does n't contain a single memorable line and has only one memorable character . Although the plot is marginally faithful to Stevenson , a considerable helping of the usual Disney ingredients have been tossed into this pirate stew and they do n't always blend easily . Only occasionally succeeds in transposing the romantic spirit of Robert Louis Stevenson 's 1883 adventure classic to the far reaches of the galaxy . If you do n't have a youngster handy to give you an excuse to see Treasure Planet , hire one , just so you can step off this mortal coil in turmoil for 95 minutes of terrific adventure , with hardly any corn or schmaltz to distract you from a ripping good yar Disney 's animated pirate tale has masterful visuals -- and an amateur 's script . Delicious aesthetic , zippy dry dialogue , and some great adventure . Superb voice casting . Like stepping forth , in an explosion of colors , weird body shapes and bad comedy , into somebody else 's migraine . 	Though its characterizations are weaker than usual , Treasure Planet offers a fast-paced , beautifully rendered vision of outer space .
princess and the warrior In terms of intellectual and emotional stimulation , who could ask for more ? This unconventional love-and-crime yarn will give [ Tykwer 's ] admirers plenty of food for thought . A captivating piece of work from an excellent team . Potente proves her versatility as an actress here with a much more subdued character , but is still capable of delivering powerhouse emotional scenes ... a film that 's gorgeous to look at , but completely hollow and devoid of compelling characters . Does n't lack for ideas , nor for images that will sweep you up in their boldness and have the resonance of dreams . Run Lola Run had a good beat , and you could dance to it . The Princess and the Warrior , on the other hand , is a little turgid . Gets better and better as it goes along . What 's special about the film is at a deeper level , down where [ Tykwer ] engages with the souls of his characters . Compelling and decent , but not great . 	More slow-moving than Run Lola Run , this film nonetheless offers an intriguing storyline about love and fate .
water A heartbreaking prism through which to understand the absurdity and cruelty of this practice . This is one of those great foreign films that you wish Hollywood would make so more people would go see them . an unforgettable film of devastating beauty With `` Water , '' a subdued but moving and emotionally powerful masterpiece , Deepa Mehta ends her `` Elements Trilogy '' movies . ... you 're an observer to a real dialogue and not merely a viewer in an audience watching a scripted drama and plot unfold . Haunting and outraged , it 's a compelling cry against inhumanity . Though it 's a story told with feminist sensitivity , it 's also the most relevant perspective for such injustice to women . For those who can accept Mehta 's approach , it 's a remarkably rewarding film . Lyrical imagery is matched with subtle performances . Both a high-minded glossy soap opera , in the tradition of a Darryl F. Zanuck forbidden-love potboiler like 'Island in the Sun , ' and a fierce expose of the mistreatment of women encouraged by fundamentalist religious tradition ... 	This compassionate work of social criticism is also luminous , due to both its lyrical imagery and cast .
1063452-pocahontas Another Disney feature destined for the classic status True to the film 's idealized spirit , directors Mike Gabriel and Eric Goldberg similarly fend off history . Disney 's 33rd animated feature is so good that it deserves to follow in the beautiful footsteps of Beauty and the Beast and earn an Oscar nomination for Best Picture . A surprisingly understated and mature romantic drama that just happens to be animated . ... being away from its high-powered predecessors , it has marched on well on its own . Pocahontas is a touching tribute to the power of loyalty , courage , cooperation , and , more than anything else , sympathetic understanding . Fine for kids ; just do n't expect a history lesson . Not only historically dubious , but the dullest Disney animation for years . Horrible . Racist . An affront . All Disney has really done in its disappointing 33rd animated feature is revive the stereotype of the Noble Savage . 	Pocahontas means well , and has moments of startling beauty , but it 's largely a bland , uninspired effort , with uneven plotting and an unfortunate lack of fun .
1109257-others Eschewing the mayhem of most Hollywood horror stories , Alejandro Amenabar makes the fears of Grace and her children vivid and palpable . The clever twist almost works to dismiss the tough wait it takes to get to the ending . In drawing out his effects , Amenabar is a little too confident that style can substitute for substance . Worth seeing more than once . It 's that most rare of spookshows : a literate and mature ghost story that works on multiple levels simultaneously . The Others ... would be unshakably bone-chilling even if you blacked out everything on the screen except Nicole Kidman 's porcelain face , her eyes frozen wide with fear . The spookiest movie since 'The Sixth Sense . ' A welcome change of pace from most contemporary scary stories , where the shocks come with all the subtlety of flashers jumping out of park bushes . Creepy-verging -on-campy thriller with a great payoff , but a lot of broken promise . The ending is rather predictable , but the rest of the film is very skillfully wrought , with excellent performances by adults and children alike . 	The Others is a spooky thriller that reminds us that a movie does n't need expensive special effects to be creepy .
1116086-trapped Indifferently implausible popcorn programmer of a movie . A good , albeit over-plotted thriller with one major twist too many . True to its title , it traps audiences in a series of relentlessly nasty situations that we would pay a considerable ransom not to be looking at . Neatly constructed thriller . This one is probably best seen as a rental . From the looks of things , it should n't take that long to make it to the video store , either . Nada poderia preparar o pblico para o caos que toma conta da produo em seu ato final , que , aparentemente , foi escrito enquanto o roteirista encontrava-se bbado . Brisk hack job . Entirely suspenseful , extremely well-paced and ultimately ... dare I say , entertaining ! Un thriller manqu qui tombe sur les nerfs presque ds la premire image . I felt trapped and with no obvious escape for the entire 100 minutes . 	With its plot about child kidnapping and endangerment , Trapped is an exploitative thriller , more queasy than suspenseful .
the life and times of hank greenberg For a treatise on U.S. anti-Semitism in baseball , Aviva Kempner 's The Life And Times Of Hank Greenberg sure is pleasant . Aviva Kempner 's documentary celebration of the Detroit Tigers first baseman defines one of those instances -- rarer than sportswriters admit -- in which a champion athlete becomes a genuine , all-around hero . A warmly human look at the career of major-league baseball 's most famous Jewish star . Valuable as history and resonant with meaning for today . Writer-director Aviva Kempner crafted this love letter to Greenberg by imaginatively weaving interviews with great footage from newsreels and feature films . For once , the image and the reality make for a perfect fit -- the man and the symbol are one . The Life and Times of Hank Greenberg is a gem of a baseball documentary because it illuminates what the Hall of Famer 's splendid career meant away from the ballpark . Kempner demonstrates how the star 's success and dignified bearing inspired a generation of Jews to fight through the ethnic barriers in all fields . It is the quintessential version of the story of the classic mythic hero , one who begins as underdog without a chance , and faces insurmountable challenges and hurdles to become a champion , doing it all with grace , grit and style . I 'm from Detroit myself and I used to go see Tiger games as a kid , and I really enjoyed this fascinating documentary . 	The Life and Times of Hank Greenberg is an affectionate , often very funny portrait of a baseball pioneer .
pitch black The film works because it 's strong on fundamentals : fear of the dark , fear of helplessness , fear of the unknown , and fear of unpredictable human behavior . Despite its rip-offs ( mostly of Alien ) , Pitch Black delivers not only on thrills and suspense , but on artistic direction and clever plotting . Pitch Black is one of those annoyingly noisy outer-space thrillers where you ca n't figure out the characters ' names at first , and when you finally do , they are either dead or you hate them . The script is a compendium of science-fiction clichs , familiar in Hollywood movies since the early fifties . Director David Twohy , who made the aliens-among-us thriller The Arrival , keeps things moving . A very streamlined exercise in interplanetary mayhem and the logistics of the body count . Against all odds , Pitch Black hit me in the right places , and I believe that those who are lucky enough to give it a chance wo n't forget it either for at least one reason ... VIN DIESEL . It 's not an especially challenging part , but Diesel handles it with aplomb . This movie is so disposable and indistinctive that I do n't want to review it -- I want to briefly mention it in a conversation about silly sci-fi and then forget it forever . You wo n't waste your time watching Pitch Black . But there are better things to do . 	Despite an interesting premise ( and a starmaking turn from Vin Diesel ) , Pitch Black is too derivative and formulaic to fully recommend to sci-fi or action fans .
solaris 1976 The larger theme of Solaris is communication itself , particularly the failure of communication between people . Meditative cinema . In Andrei Tarkovsky 's Solaris , we have made contact with the aliens , and they want you to call your mom . ... addictive , serenely maddening A visionary science-fiction film that takes us on a profound voyage into both outer and inner space . One of the great movie mind benders . There was so much to think about afterward , and so much that remained in my memory . The third feature in Tarkovsky 's brief , shining career will deliver you from the mundane to the sublime . Did I understand it ? No . Is it nonetheless a must-see of any sci-fi obsessive ? Absolutely . Ambiciosamente filosfico , Solaris uma reflexo maravilhosa e fascinante sobre o conceito de realidade , felicidade e tambm sobre a prpria natureza humana . 	Solaris is a haunting , meditative film that uses sci-fi to raise complex questions about humanity and existence .
seres queridos 2006 Only Human ( Seres Queridos ) , generally speaking , does n't work . Although it has its undeniably funny moments , the film sacrifices its credibility in its strained attempts to achieve a level of screwball comedy that requires a level of wit and pacing , not to mention some credibility , that is not reached here . Teresa De Pelegri and Dominic Harari , making their feature debut , are as interested in the realistic drama of the situation as they are the clash of cartoonish characters , and they lurch uncertainly from one to the other . Offers passing amusements , for sure , but the gap between its brilliant potential and its final execution is frustrating . succeeds in its bewildering dark sentiments but pushes them farther than they need to go . The more I write about this film , the more ridiculous it sounds . The only lesson it has to impart is that a gifted , charismatic cast can elevate the most tired material into something closer to mediocrity . An energetic farce about a family 's response to a Jewish-Muslim marriage engagement Well-meaning but forgettable . Combines a deftly-turned script , fine perfs and a feel-good message to mostly delightful effect . 	A cheerfully energetic screwball comedy , Only Human milks laughs from its culture-clash premise .
man without a past In vibrant color , accompanied by mutated Finnish rockabilly and possessed by Kaurismaki 's trademark bleak hilarity , it includes all the deadpan delivery , heavy drinking and bad luck of his earlier films . A delicious blend of hilarity and heartbreak . It manages to build slowly into a whimsically charming story about finding love and making do with what life throws at you . Wry , whimsical and sure of tone , dry in all of the right ways and without an ounce of condescension . A compassionate and darkly funny shaggy-dog story . Sublime , with a touch of the ridiculous . Moments which draw on innocent charm are prevalent . The problem is , the humour of the material does not combine as well as it should with the filmmaking style . The method is absurdist , and so are the characters , and there 's nothing straight to play off . A wistful , romantic concoction served straight-up , with no chaser to brace you against the strong kick of reality . . . . unforgettable . A scruffy and endearing film about the adventures of an amnesiac on the fringes of society where he finds more kindness that he can handle . 	Kaurismki delivers another droll comedy full of his trademark humor .
lincoln lawyer Most fans of the novel would probably tell you McConaughey is n't someone they had pictured in the lead role , but he works out just fine , his laid-back , breezy charisma exactly what Mickey requires to do his job . It marches at an efficient pace , but there 's too much collateral damage to believability . McConaughey must still think he 's starring in television commercials , his original forte . Well-written , appropriately sour modern crime story . Fans of well-regarded gavel-pounders like Jagged Edge and Primal Fear will enjoy this one as well . The Lincoln Lawyer mines most of its success from a talented stable of actors , especially that of lead Matthew McConaughey . This is a grand vehicle for McConaughey . A complex , entertaining story about a cynical lawyer and a rich client . The Lincoln Lawyer is not a feat of genre-breaking design . But it is a well-oiled machine . A modest , mid-range legal thriller , in which every element , including McConaughey 's physical presence and acting , are put in service of the rather engaging plot . 	It does n't offer any twists on the predictable courtroom thriller formula , but with a charming Matthew McConaughey leading its solid cast , The Lincoln Lawyer offers briskly enjoyable entertainment .
tabloid 2010 McKinney is no Robert McNamara , but there are lessons to be learned from this fog of sleaze . It is quite simply one of the craziest stories ever told , made all the crazier by the fact that it 's true . Or at least some version of it is true . Morris is clearly fascinated by her mega eccentricities and lets her go on at great length telling her side of the story . Tabloid is a documentary that proves conclusively that the truth really is stranger than fiction . Though the events Tabloid recounts took place in the pre-digital age , the film also functions as a kind of prehistory of modern celebrity culture and tabloid journalism . Another of Morris ' alternately hilarious and disturbing inquiries into the slippery nature of truth . complex , intriguing and always entertaining Tabloid is such a mirthful , fascinating and fantastically entertaining documentary that you ca n't help but get caught up in all the sordid fun It 's a titillating yarn told with verve , but it does n't shed much light on how tabloids create and encourage such stories , nor does it , finally , tell us much about human nature -- other than , perhaps , to illustrate an extreme case of it . Compelling , weird and queasy documentary on the eccentric Joyce McKinney and her stranger-than-fiction story . 	It 's far from his most thought-provoking work , but Tabloid finds Errol Morris as smart , spirited , and engaging as ever .
frank 2014 As compelling a film about music and its mad masters as they come . Acutely weird anarcho-punk mayhem . Adorably , touchingly and musically ... weird . In the subgenre of movies that capture ( or at least artfully dramatize ) the birth of beautiful music , Frank is a stunner . It 's the rambling middle section that sticks out , partially because of an emotionally satisfying final turn that keeps things appropriately dark . Being artistically pure is no simple thing , and Frankis an apt symbol for outsider artists everywhere . A quirky , weirdly funny tale with an underlying layer of deep melancholy , about the fragility not only of art but of the human psyche . Beneath those puppet-headed antics , and true to its title , Frank is improbably , disarmingly honest . Strong performances from Gleeson and Fassbender -- both deviating from their respective rom-coms and Oscar-baiting dramas -- give us a quirky film about the maddening pursuit of fame . The film slowly gets away from quirky and gets darker and darker , but never loses it 's comic sensibilities . Bat-dung crazy , in a good way , Lenny Abrahamson 's Frank is the story of a pop star who really lets his art go to his head . 	Funny , clever , and endearingly unusual , Frank transcends its quirky trappings with a heartfelt -- and surprisingly thought-provoking -- story .
sandlot For kids of the 1990s , there is no greater baseball movie than this coming-of-age tale about a lonely fifth-grader who makes lifelong friends by playing neighborhood baseball games . Ever since Stand by Me , it seems that every Boy 's Own yarn is deemed incomplete without a nostalgic , pseudo-ironic voice-over waxing lyrical about the mythology of short pants and acne . The Sandlot is n't well made but it 's alive with dopey , summertime spirit . The Sandlot is a movie with a comfortable working knowledge of the term `` family entertainment . '' A wondrous , true-to-life comedy . Several of the hard issues involving childhood -- getting accepted in a new neighborhood , getting accepted buy a new stepdad -- are handled with sensitivity . There 's a snappy change-of-pace gag involving a little guy and a nubile lifeguard , but the screams and barks and fraudulent emotions grow wearying . Predictable as the movie is , the Field of Dreams quality is not the only thing to like about The Sandlot . The Sandlot is a kids flick that will always stand the test of the time and be a movie that you can watch over and over as you grow older . It never loses its touch . An adventurous ode to growing up . 	It may be shamelessly derivative and overly nostalgic , but The Sandlot is nevertheless a genuinely sweet and funny coming-of-age adventure .
fargo The result is a modern masterpiece . With the subtle , homespun and ironic performances of Macy and Frances McDormand ... the film becomes a darkly laughable tale of small town normality going awry . A small , supremely satisfying film . Heck and you betcha , it is . Filled with the Coens ' trademark graveyard wit and unique camera angles , Fargo rockets along without a dull moment ; it 's by far their most tightly constructed picture since Raising Arizona . Works like a charm . A really weird charm , that is . Returning to the horror-comic vein that launched their careers , director Joel Coen and producer Ethan Coen pepper their new picture with so much humor that the occasional bursts of sheer mayhem seem more ridiculous than revolting . A crime gem that is darkly funny even when it 's chilling -- and certain to become a classic . The most complete film the Coens have ever made , it 's nothing short of a movie for the ages . Dark , gritty , and brilliant . Not for kids . Fargo is a strikingly mature , uniqueentertainment that plays on many levels ... all satisfying . 	Violent , quirky , and darkly funny , Fargo delivers an original crime story and a wonderful performance by McDormand .
hancock Drunk superhero comedy turns into ... something else , not all that successfully . If you thought you were in for something light-hearted , prepare yourself for more superhero angst than Batman Begins and Hulk combined . This summer has been defined , over and over , by boys maturing into men ... Hancock is by far the most thoughtful exploration of this issue . Hancock suggests the Colin Powell 'Pottery Barn ' argument , but before it gets really interesting , veers wildly off course . There are many joys to be found in Hancock , not the least of which is Smith 's effortless performance ... The set-up is there , but the big payoff is a huge letdown . Hancock is funny and pretty fresh but finally gives up on idiosyncrasy , leaving you nothing much to discover . To be sure , Hancock mines the superhero mythology and pays homage to the rich folklore on which it feeds and sustains itself , but what it does with the raw materials is thoroughly , refreshingly unique . Kicks into tired oh-it-sucks-to-have-superpowers territory and opens up a can of racial issues it has no intention of investigating No one can tell a coherent story anymore , and before long no one will notice . 	Though it begins with promise , Hancock suffers from a flimsy narrative and poor execution .
family man Ratner assembles enough small , bright moments of earnest amusement and sweetness to eke out a victory , thanks largely to talents of Cage and Leoni . despicable and insidious While this surrogate existence is one that the filmmakers encourage Jack to accept , it 's also one they repeatedly mock , sending mixed messages about what actually makes living worthwhile . Although the rhythms of the movie directed by Brett Ratner ... are familiar in terms of the story , Cage and Leoni make it offbeat . Its sparkling cast and a few inventive riffs on an old outline make this a welcome holiday entertainment . A perfect film for the Christmas season , its messages about the meaning of success and the importance of family is presented with straightforward and genuine warmth . A pleasant change of pace for both Cage and director Ratner . If you 're looking for a heartfelt , feel-good holiday movie , just give in and enjoy . High on schmaltz and low on real feeling , Ratner 's film is a hollow happening that , in more intelligent hands , may have achieved the kind of complexity it strives for . In the end conventional sentiment , rather than any actual morality , is all that the script for The Family Man ... has to offer . 	Despite good performances by Cage and especially by Leoni , The Family Man is too predictable and derivative to add anything new to the Christmas genre . Also , it sinks under its sentimentality .
im going home a realistic look at the ways in which mortality plays into the conscious and subconscious plans of the living The kind of quiet masterpiece that fully registers only after you 've seen it . Piccoli is superb as an aging actor named Gilbert Valence . An old man 's film in terms of its subject , star and protagonist , 76-year-old Michel Piccoli , but not in terms of its rigorous style or its austere denial of sentimentality and self-pity . Ostensibly pedestrian in its depiction of Valence 's foibles on and off stage , the film studiously avoids cinematic and emotional grandstanding in favor of extremely subtle but generally effective portraiture . A rarity , a film about old age that is neither a celebration or lament of of lost youth , nor an anticipation of impending death , but simply an unsentimental meditation on the ambiguous present , on aimlessness , isolation , and infirmity . Speaks eloquently about the symbiotic relationship between art and life . An understated film that touches on greatness . Gives you the steady pulse of life in a beautiful city viewed through the eyes of a character who , in spite of tragic loss and increasing decrepitude , knows in his bones that he is one of the luckiest men alive . Ample proof of the director 's great wit and wisdom . 	I 'm Going Home is a masterfully subtle and poignant exploration of mortality .
martyrs Arthouse ? Grindhouse ? The Passion Of Joan Of Arc : Unrated Edition ? Defying all boundaries , Martyrs relentlessly dishes the visceral pain and emerges as a work of not just ceaseless terror but also gravity and beauty . Some call it torture porn , others might call it aggressive moralising , more still have say it 's boring and pointless . In my view this level of dissent marks it as worthwhile . Despite fancy writing , it 's just another gore porn flick , out to shock for the hell of it and designed for loners who attend film festivals . Martyrs is an absolute recommend , but only to those who are willing to accept the film on its own uncompromising terms . All others are advised to stay well clear away . Martyrs marks new ground in the horror genre - just do n't take that as a sign it 's worth your time . The stylishly mounted first half zips along at a rate of knots while the gruesome make-up work will keep your gag reflex in violent spasm . Martyrs is an unforgettable ( not necessarily a good thing ) endurance test of a movie that provides a quasi-philosophical spin on the torture porn genre . Perhaps more than any other horror film , Martyrs demonstrates the range of the genre 's capabilities to find ways to excite , provoke , and disturb us . it turns out to be concerned precisely with the nature and reception of extremity , posing uncomfortable questions about what it is that one really seeks in choosing to 'witness ' scenes of horrific human abjection . The air of pretentiousness and the whiff of lesbian chic suggest that the bunch of nihilists who produced this garbage will claim something for it . All it really demonstrates is that there is something seriously rotten in the state of France . 	A real polarising movie , this Gallic torture-porn is graphic , brutal , nasty and gruesome and not to everyone 's taste .
crow the city of angels Why did n't the producers save all the money they spent on these great sets and brilliant special effects for a script worthy of them ? Vincent Perez is game , but he -- nor anyone involved in this sloppy production -- can erase the fond memories of the late Brandon Lee . Substitutes brutal violence and gore for character development , probably hoping audiences wo n't notice what a confusing nightmare this whole mess really is . What really stymies this sequel is the lack of the melancholic air of loss and mourning that bolstered the cartoon histrionics of the original . Fans of both O'Barr 's source inspiration and Brandon Lee 's initial embodiment may want to nit-pick , but this Crow has something to crow about . Memo to Edward R. Pressman : Gloomy Goth teens like the Romeo and Juliet stuff , not parental devotion from beyond the grave . Suffice to say , when people think of the moribund , brooding Eric Draven , they think of Brandon Lee , and this sequel is n't going to change that one iota . Looks pretty , but bad scripting makes this an incoherent sequel to the goth classic/ Utterly devoid of energy and shock value . This is a terrific debut for Pope , and City of Angels is the perfect antidote to the increasingly fluffy Batman films . 	The Crow : City of Angels is a sloppy pretender that captures neither the mood nor energy of the original .
stranger than fiction Forster lards over his whimsically feeble film with sentimentality . You could imagine Stranger than Fiction as a repeat of The Truman Show as adapted by Adaptation author Charlie Kaufman . Early on , Harold 's story clicks . But Zach Helm 's script reaches The End before Harold reaches his . `` It 's not the best piece of English literature of the last ten years , '' Dustin Hoffman says of Emma Thompson 's newest novel , `` but it 's not bad . '' That just about sums up Stranger Than Fiction , too . Unlike the brainier Kaufman stories , it 's easy to understand how matters are proceeding here without an air of pretentiousness . Brilliantly written , thoughtful and frequently hilarious comedy with impressive direction and terrific performances from the entire cast . While Stranger Than Fiction traffics in a bit of darkly funny existential anxiety , it also finds room for romantic fantasy and sentimental uplift . Instead of finishing with a bang it peters out , but this existential yarn is still fresh and funny enough to justify taking two hours out of your life . Everyone can handle sitcom and they do . What starts out as a complex , intriguing movie turns stale quickly . So , in lieu of the usual cookie-cutter movie , we at least get the cookie itself , a nice-light treat . 	A fun , whimsical tale about an office drone trying to save his life from his narrator , Stranger Than Fiction features a subdued performances from Will Ferrell that contributes mightily to its quirky , mind-bending affect .
libertine Depp 's is a murky performance in a murky movie . The second half , especially , grows dour and maundering , and by the end the movie seems to flail in desperation , more like a work in progress than like a finished piece . Disagreeable , unlikable , unwatchable . The characters ' florid , hyperbolic , elliptical , punning manner of speech rings true to the Restoration era , as both mirrored and modeled in the stage plays of the day . For all the overstuffed corsets and garters snapping to and fro , it 's about as bawdy as a C-Span appropriations committee meeting . Rochester may have been a cultural visionary , but the movie reduces this notion to a parable of bad-boy celebrity hitched to an uninteresting love story . Without context and reason to care , I never understood why I was lurking about here the first place . Loquacious , though ( the ) characters are talking in circles . Depp really does his best ( or perhaps that should be his worst ) to make his character unappealing and unlikable . Depp performance certainly makes the film worthwhile by itself . 	Despite Johnny Depp 's zealous performance , muddled direction and murky cinematography hinder The Libertine .
funny-ha-ha It raises so many little questions and offers so many quiet insights that one sitting is n't enough . With Marnie , Dollenmayer has managed to transform a sad sack into an indie screen goddess . A smartly observed , unpretentious , and unconventional comedy of manners . Dollenmayer 's low-key naturalism is a perfect compliment to the camera 's hand-held gaze , presenting a touching combination of amiable nonchalance and emotional yearning . Low budget and intimate , perhaps to the point of belonging on the small screen rather than the cinema , its still an intelligent and unpretentious slice of life true American life . Not actually that funny ha ha , but a sensitive and unforced little film about the aimlessness of post-graduate life . This is an undoubtedly modest yet wholly pleasurable tale about the difficulties that come with letting go of youth . For reasons Bujalski fails to dramatize effectively , his characters are stranded in a banal state of gummy-beared , flip-flopped infantilism . Is n't much more than a promising calling card that should take director , cast and crew to the next level . Bujalski 's subtly well-constructed film reveals a charmingly idiosyncratic sincerity . 	This modest , unpretentious character study astutely captures the emotional states of the 20-something slacker .
joshua The stress that mounts throughout this strangely tame and quietly spooky horror thriller has a masterfully palpable asphyxiating mood to it that the director exploits for maximum audience discomfort and unrelieved dread . Joshua is a reason for applause . The 'horror ' here is dosed with humor and false starts that keep it remarkably and deceptively light . While Ratliff deserves credit for trying to use real demons - postpartum depression , child abuse - as elements of horror , Joshua fails to thrill because it never feels remotely realistic . I 'm not sure whether Joshua 's campiness outweighs its offensiveness - it 's got both in spades - but there 's no getting around the fact that Ratliff 's creepy-kid thriller is seriously awful . If you 've never wanted to punch a child in the face , see Joshua and discover a whole new side of yourself . Supremely assured ... a creepily black comedy that eschews huge campy shocks in favor of a bunch of little nonchalant stings that add up to something fierce . It 's subtle and it 's terrific . Perhaps the scariest thing about Joshua was the feeling I got at the end that I had just sat through some kind of weird gay panic movie . It 's regrettable that Joshua veers into outlandish Omen/Bad Seed/Good Son territory . 	Though Joshua is ultimately too formulaic , its intelligence and suspenseful buildup heighten the overall creep factor .
1090789-haunting An overpriced mess ! The only thing scary about the new version is realizing that someone keeps giving director Jan De Bont money to make movies . Although The Haunting gets funnier , dumber , and less suspenseful as it goes on , it never loses the power to frighten , because it never had it . This is one Haunting that will only haunt its fledgling studio and De Bont 's career as a director . More hokey than haunting . Unfortunately , the film 's sets and special effects overwhelm its plot and cast . In The Haunting , the moviemakers succeed in something very difficult : creating a haunted house with real personality and terror . Once the screaming begins , so will your laughing Worse than awful ! Not very scary . 	Sophisticated visual effects fail to offset awkward performances and an uneven script .
john rambo Like America , it 's both excited by and ashamed of its bloodlust . Hollow , hopeless , horridly written and wholly unpleasant . One would be hard-pressed to imagine a conventional narrative being any thinner than the one in Rambo . Sorry Sly , not this time . Geriatric Rambo , AARP poster boy , still saves the day ! Non-stop violence is too overpowering for kids . Proficiently made , deeply offensive and undeniably cruel , like a popular restaurant serving fresh-roasted puppy . A cynical cash-grab , made not because Stallone had some good ideas for the character but because he wanted to capitalize on it . If I had a penny for every screaming explosion in Rambo , I 'd be dead . Watching Rambo and Sarah on screen together , one is reminded less of Rick and Ilsa and more of Kong and Ann Darrow . No matter how reluctant and torn the killer , 'Rambo ' is an apologia for brute force . 	Sylvester Stallone knows how to stage action sequences , but the movie 's uneven pacing and excessive violence ( even for the franchise ) is more nauseating than entertaining .
new york doll This might be the only documentary that will appeal to punks and Mormons alike . New York Doll is still a revelation , and a fine companion piece to End of the Century , the edgier and uglier history of another post-Dolls band , The Ramones . Whiteley delicately balances both Kane 's newfound devotion and his more glamorous rock 'n ' roll past and pays respect to both . The details , the personalities and the final twist grab you until you 're left truly shaken and inspired . A fascinating study of a man who once had fame and fortune , lost it all , but was able to get a second chance It 's hard to imagine much of an audience for this film outside of the limited ranks of Dolls fans , or those who swoon over any whiff of celebrity ruin and retrieval , regardless of how conventional . Poignant and moving , with an ending no screenwriter could improve on , New York Doll is like the best episode of VH1 's Bands Reunited ever . The film paints an affectionate portrait of a wry , somewhat addled man whose hard-partying past was in stark contrast with his later life -- a fluffy cat nestles in his guitar case while he explains his nickname . Poves that Mormonism and makeup-adorned punk rock are n't oil and water entities . A tribute to and stroking of its subject ... And by canonizing Kane , displaying this hulking angel with such innocence , the film is soulless . 	Arthur Kane is a fascinating subject in what ultimately proves to be a touching , bittersweet documentary .
vertical ray of the sun A film shaped ... around the mundane , endlessly fascinating and humanizing details of who we are right here and now . Clearly the work of a master poet . a gorgeous dream half-remembered . A sensual poem with its own beguiling rhythm . The film delights the eye and soothes the nerves . A fascinating film . The film 's minimalism works against it . A provocative meditation on the possibility of domestic happiness . The story is pure melodrama but Tran photographs it with a sense of grace that does n't judge ... Though Tran places special demands on his viewers , those prepared to enter his magical world will hunger to return . 	The Vertical Ray of the Sun is gorgeously , poetically composed , lulling the viewer into its story of everyday life .
towelhead Boasting ten-dimensional characters and the sophisticated juggling of difficult themes , Ball 's powerful , complex movie is a must-see . Towelhead is too eager to shock us , and it 's therefore only stupidly offensive instead of cutting and insightful . Gripping , disturbing , powerful and likely outright offensive to many people , Towelhead is an often brutal study of clashing cultures , adolescent abandonment and sexual confusion . A crude but scathing portrait of suburban life . Towelhead is one of the more disturbing films to come out in years and to this day , a month after seeing it , there is one particular scene that still shakes me up . Not since Splendor in the Grass has there been such a candid and sympathetic account of the mixed messages , double-standards , giddy highs and hormonal free falls experienced by teenage girls . ... [ A ] shocking and subversive coming-of-age melodrama . Perceptively blunt and incendiary , Towelhead is one of the most challenging cinematic efforts of the year . ... this loathsome movie sullies actors and audience alike ... Towelhead is n't a movie , it 's a loaded gun . How is it that Alan Ball wrote some of the most nuanced , layered , dynamic characters on TV in Full Review | Original Score : C 	This story of politics , race and , sexual awakening has moments that pack a punch , but overall , Towelhead never quite achieves the nuance of helmer Alan Ball 's television work .
sliding doors This proposition from English writer-director Peter Howitt is not unique , but I have never seen a film that presents the idea so clearly , so cleanly , so provocatively . Paltrow contributes a winning dual performance . a clever conceit , but it 's one that eventually wears out its welcome . Great script , interesting camera work , superb acting . I can find nothing wrong with it , the more I think about it . Too often in her past movies Paltrow has been cast as either an ice princess , a gloomy grump or a kook , and it 's a relief to watch her get a crack at playing someone down-to-earth . Sliding Doors deserves points for being original . A rich and imaginative fable . Se voc quer assistir a um filme sobre realidades 'paralelas ' , melhor conferir os infinitamente superiores 'Corra , Lola , Corra ' e 'Feitio do Tempo ' . Give the movie credit for being a different sort of romantic comedy , but still one has to regret the failure of imagination . This should go down a storm with folks who still cherish the hope that the solution to all their problems is just around the corner or in the next lift . 	Despite the gimmicky feel of the split narratives , the movie is watch-able due to the winning performances by the cast .
fast five A screeching , testosterone-propelled fifth installment for this durable , high-octane franchise . There 's arguably even more gun and car play than in F & F4 , with the prolonged car chase finale easily chiming in as the best , most imaginative one in the franchise so far . If you 're in the mood for the cinematic equivalent of sugar and trans fats , the film delivers with one physics-defying set piece after another . One those exceptional sequels , even better than the original film , 'The Fast and the Furious . ' Stating that Fast Five is the best of the Fast and the Furious series is perhaps like claiming that the Big Mac is the best hamburger served at McDonald 's : It 's not so much a declaration of excellence as an example of damning with faint praise . Though the smash-bang chases make for dumb fun , it all mostly cruises in a noisy neutral . And with his film clocking in at over two hours , director Justin Lin might have raised his own speed limit . Even with the over-the-top acting of Dwayne Johnson and mind-numbing action sequences the film is actually watchable . While dopey as ever , the fun factor has increased exponentially now that certain plot elements and subculture porn has been ditched to roughhouse in Rio with a band of crooks who 've blossomed into a family . Something like Ocean 's Eleven and its various numerations , except with muscle cars and knuckleheads and without the laughs . I wish I could say that Fast Five was the fastest , most furious movie of the series , and that there would n't be a faster , more furious movie all year . I have to be honest though . Fast Five just was n't fast enough for me , and it 's hardly furious at all . 	Sleek , loud , and over the top , Fast Five proudly embraces its brainless action thrills and injects new life into the franchise .
lust caution Lee 's saucy , sumptuous slow-burner is a complex , elegant seduction , drawing on Hitchcock but putting a singular stamp on a rich spread of spies and sex , repression and sacrifice . Just do n't try those moves at home ... Overwrought and overlong , Ang Lee 's Lust , Caution nevertheless has some moments of exquisite beauty and a potentially star-making performance from newcomer Tang Wei . Well crafted and painful to watch . Worth paying Matinee price if you can shake the discomfort off . ... Lee imparts a sense of roiling depths beneath a placid surface . By the time [ Lee ] gets to the lust , it is too late to throw caution to the winds . The primary question in Lust , Caution ( Se , jie ) is : `` What is real ? '' The answers , nebulous and harsh , are suffused with cigarette smoke and punctuated by clacking mahjong tiles . A shocking disappointment . Lee provides no such easy comfort , instead keeping audiences constantly off-kilter , purposefully frustrating them with character behavior that 's just ... wrong . Both a cannily constructed spy thriller and a grim kind of love story . Ang Lee 's directing is so engrossing that one abandons the impulse to rationalize and finds oneself completely swept up in the consciousness of the story . 	Ang Lee 's Lust , Caution is a tense , sensual and beautifully-shot espionage film .
cave The monsters show up and it becomes another run-of-the-mill creature feature , only one that 's more dimly lit than usual because of the setting . It may dredge up a few frights , but for the most part The Cave is a spelunker clunker . Like many subpar efforts of this sort , the cutting in The Cave is so frantic you ca n't tell what 's going on or who 's getting chewed on . If you got ta rip something off , might as well be a classic . Characters leap , dive , climb , swim , lift , and run from one scene to the next . The Cave is the celluloid personification of 'Outside Magazine . ' So very , very stupid ... and so very , very fun . The Cave is a decently crafted but unoriginal and uninspiring creature feature with a few moments of true entertainment that the rest of the film never matches up to . Even for a weird creature-feature , this murky , run-of-the-mill scare story is decidedly mundane . Director Bruce Hunt should n't be allowed to film a birthday party , let alone a major motion picture . You will laugh at numerous unintended jokes -- including the baked-in opportunity for a sequel . 	Despite its stylized and impressive sets , this horror-monster movie mish-mash suffers from endless cliches and wildly implausible plotlines .
sixth sense Osment is excellent , as is Bruce Willis , as a melancholy child psychologist scarred by his failure with a similarly haunted youth , and Toni Collette , as the boy 's fiercely loyal mother . The performances are solid with an outstanding debut from Haley Joel Osment . You leave slightly asquirm . You know it will linger . It becomes a clammy , chilly movie building toward a revelation that you can not predict . As I say : I can not tell you . You 'd hate me if I did . I can only say , do n't look now , but look sometime . There 's more fright in any 10 minutes of The Sixth Sense than the sensory startle effects The Haunting produces in its entire running time . The Sixth Sense works best when it works its mournful magic alone , without fanfare , using only the flickering fear in Cole 's gaze as it meets the compassion in Crowe 's . If you enjoy ghost stories , do n't miss this one . Not only does this production contain what is probably Willis ' strongest performance and a lot of other fine acting , but it is also one of the best films of the year . And it 's sure to be a movie that the people who see it will want to talk about . Much more than a one-trick puzzle movie the logic holds emotionally and narratively , and Shyamalan brings satisfying closure to all his characters and their sorrows . A delicate , emotionally attentive , but very scary ghost story . The ghosts in The Sixth Sense will have a field day with your spine and the hairs on your arms . 	M Night Shayamalan 's The Sixth Sense is a twisty ghost story with all the style of a classical Hollywood picture , but all the chills of a modern horror flick .
u571 A smart , slick crowd-pleaser perfectly pitched to kick off the summer movie season . In its own corny way it is a fun outing . If you 're into ferociously suspenseful , high-tension thrillers : go , go , go ! an engaging action story Well-made and so extremely suspenseful . A gripping piece of historical fiction . A thrill ride of the first rank . Plays like a third-rate disaster movie -- and an assaultively noisy one at that . Sharply edited and vigorously directed and performed . It ai n't sunk , but this flick could 've used a life raft . 	Excellent cinematography and an interesting plot accompanied by a talented cast and crew make U-571 a tense thriller .
last legion We can only hope that the title of this misbegotten swords-and-sandals adventure is prophetic . Once you accept The Last Legion for what it is , namely a Saturday adventure matinee show aimed at impressionable 10-year-old boys , then you 'll have a passable time at the cinema . . . Sort of . Lots budgetary-challenged battles of the largely bloodless PG-13 stripe with folks in smelly looking leather suits and crepe hair clanging swords and saying 'Arrgh ' a lot . In The Last Legion , Rome does n't fall . But it does look like it would rather be lying down and taking a nap . As the Roman Empire crumbles , undemanding escapist entertainment with wonderful production design and a cast . This sword-and-sandal spectacle from those epic-loving De Laurentiises might have made a good childrens film . This take on the Arthurian legend is flawed but watchable . ... makes a hash of history , but ... just think of it as a nifty adventure dreamed by an imaginative boy who dozed off in his grandfather 's library . not compelling , not mythic , and not exciting A novel hybrid of swords , sandals , horned helmets and furs , this really is a load of old rubbish , but there 's some fun to be had , especially for boys who like to have mock sword fights with wooden sticks . 	With miscast leads and unoriginal , uninspired dialogue , The Last Legion pales in comparison to the recent cinematic epics it invokes .
kung fu panda A pleasant surprise . It avoids easy targets and actually bases its humor in its performances . Sufficiently entertaining for kids and mildly amusing for adults . The open got my interest up because the animation style recalled the Emmy-winning Cartoon Network show Samurai Jack . Unfortunately , when the dream ends , so does the innovative visual style ... 'Chinese ' in the way that Springfield-style cashew chicken is 'Chinese . ' A snappy , amusingly witty family comedy . Kids will undoubtedly love the film , while adults wo n't feel talked down to . After years of skulking around in Hollywood 's shadows , fan-boy culture finally has a movie hero to call its own . This is one kid 's movie where the grownups should n't have to fight over who has to take the children . Instead , everyone should get in on the fun . Formulaic , but entertaining and often dazzling . The jokey title sells this clever , old-fashioned film short . I had a great time . 	Kung Fu Panda has a familiar message , but the pleasing mix of humor , swift martial arts action , and colorful animation makes for winning Summer entertainment .
10011457-ong bak 2 2009 Ong Bak 2 ca n't possibly match the novelty and inspired acrobatics of the original , but Tony Jaa gives this new entry enough kick to keep audiences more than satisfied . You can only get so mad at a movie in which a large crowd cheers and the lone subtitle reads `` Hooray . '' With a period . The goal of Ong Bak 2 was to make something bigger and better . They only succeeded with the first half . `` Ong Bak 2 '' is so obviously contrived for the sole purpose of showing off Tony Jaa 's martial arts weapons expertise that the film soon wears out its welcome . There is n't much of a plot , although Jaa 's fans wo n't mind a bit . All they want is lots of bloody , muddy action in the Thai jungles , which they get . It 's ... weird . But then the whole film is . Tony Jaa obviously is . But like Jaa , it 's also sporadically , triumphantly , transcendently amazing . Just , be prepared ... The fight scenes are kinetic and varied , and pick up a unique flavor from the backdrop of meticulously recreated hillside villages . A mix of martial arts , which includes Muay Thai , kung fu and Samurai swordplay , that was Jaa 's inspiration for making the movie in the first place . Head-thumping nirvana ... By the time a dude in a bird suit starts fighting on top of a moving elephant , it seems like a logical , completely awesome progression . If you 've ever stood in front of a mirror and practiced your Bruce Lee `` kara-tay '' chops , Thailand 's Tony Jaa should , de facto , be your hero . 	It suffers from comparisons to its predecessor -- not to mention Tony Jaa 's less-than-nimble direction -- but Ong Bak 2 has all the extravagant violence and playful style that fans of the original will expect .
1007818-frankenstein Classic monster movie still electrifies . An essential classic . As much as the later movies diluted the character of the Frankenstein creature , nothing could blunt the impact made by Karloff in the role of the most memorable movie monster of all time . Another undisputed classic from the mind of James Whale . Beautiful photography , a heartbreaking story , and iconic moments from beginnning to end . Absolutely unmissable . If it is n't the best American horror film of the 1930s , that 's only because the extremely gifted director James Whale was n't done with the franchise quite yet . Here Whale emerges in full flower % u2014the stage director in love with the theatrical and drunk on the possibilities of film . The genius of all this beauty is that it truly is chillingly scary . Shocking in its day and still a genuinely creepy experience , director James Whale 's primitive yet enthralling interpretation of Mary Shelley 's classic tale of man playing God is the most influential genre movie ever made . Now a classic part of scream culture . 	Still unnerving to this day , Frankenstein adroitly explores the fine line between genius and madness , and features Boris Karloff 's legendary , frightening performance as the monster .
super 8 For those who grew up on the Spielberg classics , a truly nostalgic treat awaits . Abrams fashions Super 8 in such a calculating manner , with every element weighed both for maximum nostalgia value and ironic hipster cred , that it has an artificial feel to it . It 's like a birthday cake made of spun glass . Great action sequences and a touching story make Super 8 a great summer blockbuster . The young characters are played by , among others , Elle Fanning and Joel Courtney . They interact well , albeit in that rose-tinted view of childhood so favoured by Spielberg , who is on production duties here . Maybe I 'll be proven wrong about the five stars , but if nothing else , Super 8 is the kind of film I loved to watch as a young teen and have n't seen for a long time . An exhilarating summer ride . That is about as 'best of both worlds ' as one could ask for . If Super 8 is n't as moving as ET , as mysterious as Close Encounters , or as exciting as Raiders , it has heart , humour and sheer storytelling panache in spades . Super 8 is still fun , and often funny too . It 's also entertaining , and sometimes even a little startling . A love letter to a cinematic era , before 'blockbuster ' became a synonym for 'franchise ' or 'tent pole . ' 	It may evoke memories of classic summer blockbusters a little too eagerly for some , but Super 8 has thrills , visual dazzle , and emotional depth to spare .
dirty dancing havana nights Garai is so wooden that she elicits more snickers from audiences than anything else . The dynamics of Havana Nights have n't the urgency of the first Dirty Dancing . It 's fluff that attempts to parse human suffering so that it does n't appear to be fluff . . . meaning it 's exploitive fluff . In the 1987 Dirty Dancing and 2004 's Havana-set remake , the settings of the stories are virtually the same except in their particulars . It challenges its audience to ask questions , namely , 'Why ? ' Why was this movie even made ? Its lack of punch and its simmering sexuality make it ideal for the pre-teen girl squad set ; it 's lightweight fare even by musical standards . Theres some sizzle between Romola and Diego , too bad theyre stuck in a mediocre flick . It 's hardly ever a good idea to remake a beloved movie . You can definitely put this movie in the corner . Havana Nights makes us long for the days when Patrick Swayze lived on Hollywood 's A-list 	Cheesy , unnecessary remake .
rush hour The great Jackie Chan deserves an A list director in a Hollywood film while he 's still young enough to pull off his awe inspiring stunts . Rush Hour effectively teams Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker in a formulaic but funny action comedy that should please fans of both stars . The action and stunt scenes are not on a par with those in Chan 's HK efforts . Funny movie chopped full of action , lacks an original concept and plot line , but comes through with hilarious banter from Tucker and fun fight scenes with Chan . No matter how much or how fast Tucker talks , you ca n't help feeling that his co-star has made a fatal mistake . The story is still routine , and still predictable , and still unimportant . So why is that when Chan makes a real Hollywood movie the results are so disappointing ? As Chan moved from Hong Kong to Hollywood , something got lost in the translation . Terrific entertainment . Classy and brassy , Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker are a funky , well-matched duo in New Line 's winning Rush Hour . 	A kick-ass addition to the cop-buddy film genre .
1042108-bodyguard It 's only a matter of time before love arises between Mr. Earphone and Ms. High Note . By that time , Bodyguard has slumped to the ground . Feature length rock video created to sell soundtracks . Starring Kevin Costner . Serviceable story with Houston making an impressive film debut . It 's not that it 's entirely bad . I liked some of the music and Whitney Houston 's singing . Why ca n't the real Oscars be like this ? With the non-existent romantic chemistry between the main characters , coupled with the sparsely sprinkled suspense of the stalker plot , most of the narrative falls into The Boredom Zone faster than a lead balloon . Two long hours and 10 minutes after this tale begins , Rachel and Frank seem no closer than seatmates on a long bus trip . hilarious camp artifact The thriller aspect of The Bodyguard works , but the romance does not . Shows how our lives are often throttled by the emotions of fear and desire . 	The Bodyguard is a cheesy , melodramatic potboiler with occasional moments of electricity from Whitney Houston .
adventures of rocky and bullwinkle Kids will enjoy it , even if the jokes escape them . A mediocre update that will probably annoy the baby boomers lured in by the familiar name while mystifying anyone who never saw the original show . The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle appears to be one of the frontrunners for both the 'eye candy ' crowd and children 's audience . So unrelentingly bad on so many levels . Faithful to the original in that there are quiet chuckles for the grown ups and exciting visuals to keep the kids entertained . Roger Rabbit , what did we do to deserve this ? Rocky & Bullwinkle is the new millennium 's Howard the Duck . Beyond a few subsequent and scattered humorous and/or clever moments -- that become scarcer as the story progresses -- the film never lives up to its fabulous opening . The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle is a masterpiece . Bringing the cartoon characters into the real world requires a wild imagination . Credit scriptwriter Kenneth Lonergan for having it . 	Though the film stays true to the nature of the original cartoon , the script is disappointing and not funny .
the fluffer Though some may want to tout it as a gay Boogie Nights , The Fluffer does not approach that film 's visual verve . Bills itself 'both a satiric look at the porn industry and a dark tale of obsession ' -- proof that self-description is often self-delusion . It has n't decided whether it wants to be a raunchy comedy or a drama about obsession with movie images . The film never follows its own logic , but also never goes down the path you think it will A witty , sad , informed view of obsession , submission and the sex industry . For the most part a disarming , charming , and frequently cynical exercise in mordant humor . A film for the chastened romantic in us all -- gay , straight or 'for pay . ' Begins as a colorful and off-beat comedy about gay hero worship that unfortunately descends into banal melodrama . Takes a sudden turn for the dramatic in the second act and becomes even more of a hokey downer in the third . Along the way there are sneaky flourishes of surreal style to perk up the film 's drab , low-budget realism . 	Though it begins promisingly enough , The Fluffer eventually descends into melodrama .
this is england Meadows ' recollections of his own youth ... lend a terrible immediacy to an unusually potent coming-of-age story . Meadows gets great , moving performances from his young cast . [ T ] here 's nothing precisely wrong with This Is England except its complete predictability . Deeply impressive , as both a recreation of ( TM ) 80s working-class England and an intimate tale of one childhood ( TM ) s brutal end . You would n't think a film about a group of British skinheads during the early 1980s could be a sweet , nostalgic coming-of-age period piece , but that 's the surprise of the authentic , fresh and utterly relevant This Is England . The best British film of the year . You 'll be floored . This Is England grabs you by the scruff of the neck and yanks you into the Thatcher 1980s with brute force . The connections he makes between skinhead jingoism , Thatcher 's aggressive governing style and an aimlessly spunky kid coming-of-age are trenchant . Humane and complex . A predictable story with too many minutes spent with a gang just hanging out but featuring two extraordinary performances . 	A moving coming-of-age tale that captures the despair among England 's working-class youth in the 1980s .
blades of glory ... pales next to its predecessors . While there are some laughs here -- the best of which sound like Ferrell improvisations -- there are nowhere near enough to sustain a feature . Blades does n't hit the non sequitur heights of Anchorman or Talladega Nights , but the cast is great and several gags hit hard . If Blades of Glory is n't quite a triple-Lutz , nailed-it triumph of a movie , it 's still loads of laughs and guaranteed to please audiences everywhere . All this talent gives Blades Of Glory high technical marks , but it 's the presentation that 's less than Olympic . While I still think Will Ferrell is a hilarious guy , these Blades are disappointingly dull . For a similar film that offers more laughs by taking it to the limit , rent the Farrelly brothers ' 1996 bowling gem Kingpin . [ Will Ferrell 's ] new film is easily on a par with [ his ] earlier efforts . After Ferrell 's manchild partners with a fey figure-skating rival ( Heder ) , it 's strictly uninspired buddy-comedy bickering . The filmmakers wisely surrounded themselves with people who know how to wring solid belly laughs out of a paper-thin premise . herky-jerky from beginning to end ... an increasingly tiresome string of sight gags about men groping other men , punching each other in the crotch and practicing silly routines . 	Thanks to the spirited performances of a talented cast - particularly Will Ferrell and Jon Heder as rivals-turned-teammates -- Blades of Glory successfully spoofs inspirational sports dramas with inspired abandon .
civic duty Canadian director Jeff Renfroe builds only off-the-shelf suspense as Terry 's suspicions increase . The vivid sense of time and place is the best thing about the initially promising , ultimately irritating psychological thriller Civic Duty . All that flash serves to prop up what 's in essence a one-act play , constructed around a political message that 's telegraphed from the start . A flawed but worthwhile examination of paranoia and clashing cultures in the 21st century . `` Rear Window '' updated to post 9-11 corporate downsizing has too many mixed messages to convey the simple fear of a classic thriller . An intense and startling movie for our times . It hits you right between the eyes . A gripping thriller exploring post-9/11 paranoia . Once the story 's events reach a climactic pitch , the film stagnates in place for too long and loses momentum . A riveting study of paranoia and the wild and destructive behavior that it can spawn . Civic Duty is ultimately less psychological thriller than polemic ... 	At times a tense and provocative thriller , Civic Duty struggles to move beyond its one-note premise .
the big year If the mere mention of the blue-footed booby sends you into paroxysms , The Big Year is the film for you . Owen Wilson and Jack Black appear on the verge of succumbing to the same terminal blandness that 's gripped Martin for so long . The Big Year is completely predictable and full of way too many bird-watching montages set to inspiring music , but it 's such an upbeat , cheery film that it 's pretty hard to resist . 'Year flies over the cuckoo 's nest . If only `` The Big Year '' played as strongly as a movie about birding as it does as one of those films where the journey does n't matter as much as that same old revelations about what matters in life . Frankel is blessed with this cast and a subject that seems ripe for mockery , or at least gentle lampooning . But he never lands big laughs , just grins and giggles . Drained of its stars ' onetime giddy spirit , this is an Olive Garden farce for audiences who do n't hunger for authentic wit . Aside from an international staring contest and the World Series of Texting , there are n't many challenges less suited for a movie than competitive [ birding ] . Engaging , low-key comedy enlivened by likeable characters , strong performances and an original central premise , though it 's slightly undone by an overwritten script and a grating , ever-present voiceover . It 's nice to watch a comedy that does n't screech or foul the nest , but `` The Big Year '' is no big deal . 	Though made with care and affection for its characters , The Big Year plods along , rarely reaching any comedic heights .
center stage Not since The Turning Point has a dance movie done so many cinematic pirouettes with such a graceful sense of audience-pleasing fun . Seeing foot-work this fun on film is enough . Give Center Stage an encore just for existing . The aim of the film was to be entertaining , the art part it dumbed down for mass consumption . An unbelievably hokey , and , in spite of the terpsichore on display , resolutely lead-footed piece of mawkish melodrama . An unexpected pleasure . It is so bad , it actually made me realize that life does n't hold try-outs and I should use my time doing better things than watching Center Stage . A joyous celebration of youth and show business . If only Hytner had chucked the cliched script and turned Center Stage into a full-blown song-and-dance musical , the movie might have been something special . Center Stage proves that it 's hard to make a bad dance movie . ... not only insultingly stupid but weirdly dull . 	Critics say that if you 're willing to suffer through soap opera-like dialogue and plot to see some excellent dancing , this movie is for you . Otherwise , you might be better off renting Fame .
hannah montana the movie Improbably entertaining . Assorted conflicts and adventures ensue , and the movie overall is painless if not exactly electrifying . Good grief . The same guy who directed this also helmed one of my favorite movies . This parent-child love story , glancingly expressed through the potent medium of country music , often had me wondering if anyone in the cinema had a number for Tennessee social services . It 's a pretty dumb , predictable story , but for a ten year-old girl , the target audience , Hannah Montana : The Movie is good , clean G-rated fun without so much as one wet kiss . Director Peter Chesholm does a fine job moving Hannah out of its $ 14.95 Disney Channel set and onto a bigger canvas . A goofily endearing romp that might even lasso a few new fans . This probably wo n't sway the unconverted into becoming fans , but it should please the more than 180 million viewers of the hit Disney Channel series . Cyrus , as always , is a professional charmer ( it 's hard to resist when she leads a hip-hop hoedown ) , and the crusty folkiness of Billy Ray Cyrus as her real-life dad is as welcome as ever . The rest of the time it 's up to Cyrus to keep things light , and her undeniable charisma radiates from the big screen as strongly as it does on the small one . 	While youthful Miley fans wo n't complain , Hannah Montana the Movie is little more than a formulaic Disney Channel episode stretched thin .
star wars episode i the phantom menace The John Williams score is dynamite , the sound is brilliant , the pictures are richly detailed and ferociously eye-popping ! Pure adventure ! This time , the Force was n't with him . A vigorous , romping , hugely entertaining movie ! A great work from a greater director , and a blockbuster of quite the most swashbuckling kind . The Phantom Menace opened to the exact same complaints as its now canonical predecessor . Only this time , its very real assets have been almost completely dismissed . A very pleasing technical accomplishment . You keep looking for the emotional center of the movie and never find it . This entry into the Star Wars saga does the originals justice in terms of heart , action , and fun . This Star Wars engages by its sheer variety of characters ! 	Lucas needs to improve on the plot and character development , but there 's plenty of eye candy to behold .
superman iii Better known as : 'When Superman Started to Suck . ' Oy . That 's all . Just 'oy . ' Outdated superhero movie may interest older kids . Superman is thrown in to the mix somewhere . But he 's merely an after thought , and a supporting player in his own film . One of the most underrated movies of all time . Seriously . Not bad . Fun bizarro scenes and the Clark/Superman fight rules . Reeve continues his traditions of graceful flying moves , confident carriage , and twinkly warmth . Sadly , none of it is enough to save Superman III from being at home only in a junkyard . Anyone who has been following the Superman saga will find this installment enjoyable enough , but some of the magic is missing . There was a day when Richard Lester was a great filmmaker . It was before this . Pryor is wasted but the image of a bad Superman , and his battle with his good side , is memorable . 	When not overusing sight gags , slapstick , and Richard Pryor , Superman III resorts to plot points rehashed from the previous Superman flicks .
the worlds end A movie that will unexpectedly challenge your expectations in some of the funniest ways you can imagine . This inspired nutball comedy is like its heroes on their mission : It just gets progressively more nuts , more blotto . Pegg gives arguably his best performance in the three films , and his chemistry with Frost is unbeatable . [ T ] he real surprise of The World 's End is the wounded heart beating underneath the gags . The crazy scenario provides an opportunity for Simon Pegg , Nick Frost and the rest of the cast to showcase their comedic talents . Although its humor is not for all tastes , no one can say this crazy picture does n't have the guts to live up to its title . At once a Big Chill-style old-pal reunion story and an Invasion of the Body Snatchers homage doused in beer and bad-boy humor ... Let 's hope Wright , Pegg and Frost concoct more wild doomsday scenarios together . Their work makes for a good time at the movies ... A rollicking entertainment , boasting some terrific ( and terrifically unexpected ) plot twists , a bunch of laugh-out-loud gags and clever action set-pieces . The film is witless , inspirationless and flogs its few recurring jokes till they whimper . 	Madcap and heartfelt , Edgar Wright 's apocalypse comedy The World 's End benefits from the typically hilarious Simon Pegg and Nick Frost , with a plethora of supporting players .
rabbit hole Although it is achingly sad , Rabbit Hole is not maudlin or depressing . At times this intimate family drama makes you want to turn away as if you were eavesdropping or prying into the lives of two people whose loss is so palatable that you feel helpless in your inability to reach through the screen to comfort them . A plausible portrait of what transpires when bad things happen to good people without faith in God or a lucky rabbit 's foot . Easily the most gracefully performed grief-porn you 'll see this season ... John Cameron Mitchell 's too decorous tale of parental grief and conflict is wise as far as it goes , but tastefully bourgeois to a fault . This searing family portrait is honest , humorous at times and worthy of kudos for Kidman and the cast . John Cameron Mitchell directed , making an impressive detour in style and subject matter after his flamboyant Shortbus and Hedwig and the Angry Inch . Mitchell shows a firm but gentle touch with this material . He 's keenly attuned to the shades of sorrow , but also to the possibility of humor , forgiveness and resolution . Un drama ntimo y conmovedor , narrado con sobriedad , sin golpes bajos y con una profunda empata y cario por sus personajes . Dentro de un notable elenco se destacan las actuaciones de Nicole Kidman y Dianne Wiest . Although it 's sad , it avoids miserabilism , because it is leavened by touches of humour and a refusal to wallow . The reason to see it is Kidman . 	It 's often painful to watch , but Rabbit Hole 's finely written script and convincing performances make it worth the effort .
see spot run This mutt of a movie is a real stinker . Do your kids a favor -- and take them to see something more worthwhile than the relentlessly vulgar and stupid See Spot Run . For kids , this is a crowd-pleaser and a rollicking good time with its cops 'n ' robbers and a doggone dog . Dotted with strange seizures of humiliation . No bows -- no wows See Spot Run is a must miss . Only young Jones and the dog come out of it with their reputations intact . Leaving aside the constant crudeness , this is a bad movie anyway . Despite a litany of inanities , the film scores a big hit because it 's just plain funny watching goofy Arquette twist his rubbery face as he stumbles into disaster . The movie is directed by TV veteran John Whitesell in an unpretentiously snappy style that seems designed to appeal to the affection for vulgarity of the eight-and-up crowd . This is not so much of a 'bad ' movie , as it is just a movie that we 've seen a thousand times before . 	See Spot Run has all the elements chidren enjoy in a movie : a lovable dog , bad things happening to stupid adults , and lots of dog poop . For adults , it 's either hit-or-miss .
final fantasy the spirits within Where `` Final Fantasy : The Spirits Within '' falters is not in the stunning visuals , but in its pedestrian script There 's an almost evangelical , wave-of-the-future excitement to the film , promising more and better to come . Just sit back , grip your arm rest like it 's a joystick , and enjoy the slam-bang ride through the future-shocked Earth of 2065 . As a feature film , it ranks right up there with Titan A.E . and Atlantis for logic and an ability to compel . Has the capacity to inspire awe , but it 's still a rough draft . Technically this movie is really , really excellent . The exercise is so elaborately pointless you 'd think the Pentagon had bankrolled it . Predictable , nonsensical plot , laughably lame dialogue and a surfeit of cloying environmentalist piety . From a strictly visual standpoint , the film is like nothing you 've ever seen . In terms of story , however , you 've seen it all before . Has the stolidness of a video game , from which it is derived . 	The movie raises the bar for computer animated movies , but the story is dull and emotionally removed .
straight outta compton It 's a story driven by classic tensions : struggle and triumph , division and conquest , group and individual . It never feels less than authentic , directed with energy by F Gary Gray and acted superbly . You ca n't get more current or more electric than Straight Outta Compton . At its worst , the film is agonizingly biopic-ish . At its best , it 's a rise-and-fall movie where the first half is infinitely more compelling than the second . Rreaches back and recaptures the energy of N.W.A . 's raging , raunchy cultural moment . History is written by victorious billionaire rappers . A movie that can launch a thousand conversations and , sadly , as pertinent now as N.W.A . 's record was in 1988 If you 're like me , you 'll forgive its more melodramatic clichs and just surrender to its raw , brass-knuckle force . It does for the most part fulfill its mission , breathing life into the origin story of a group whose influence is still being felt . One can argue that this story might have been told with greater punch , more detail and less reliance on the tropes of the genre , but it 's still pretty solid and vivid as it is . 	Straight Outta Compton is a biopic that 's built to last , thanks to F. Gary Gray 's confident direction and engaging performances from a solid cast .
ride with the devil 1999 Lee has cast his film with the cream of rising actors . While the movie intermittently revs up for some showy combat scenes , its real mtier is a texture of fine-grained observation that brings history to life on the molecular level . Does for Civil War movies what 1991 's Mobsters did for gangster movies . The cast is attractive and proficient at handling the fancy dialogue the filmmakers offer up as period vernacular . Like too many other young men in too many other wars , Maguire 's Jake Roedel sees too much , and grows up too fast . Ride With the Devil works on the simple level of action and classic drama . Simply put , a gorgeous and enduring piece of work . Entertaining , effective . Lee and his team bring the period and place to life brilliantly , in its every frontier main street , homely speech pattern , and burnt gunpowder fog . Lenthy and zigzagging narrative . 	A well-acted , eccentric Civil War film , Ang Lee 's Ride With the Devil is often more visually striking than it is emotionally engaging .
anchorman Nearly as offensive as it is funny . Overly broad humor with little on its mind . I think Anchorman has the potential to achieve Austin Powers-like status as a highly quotable movie . I hoped for far more laughs , a sharper edge to the humor and a comedy that would attain the rank of other SNL alum works such as Caddyshack . Takes a joke and runs with it -- sometimes too far , but usually long enough to wear you down and force you to submit to its craziness . It has a pleasing , noodly elasticity about it -- the picture knows what its limits are and proceeds to boogie unself-consciously far outside them . so many ways to go with something witty , sharp , or just plain fun . . .the filmmakers instead went with pointless , dull , obvious , and sophomoric A crude , funny satire that tackles local television anchors and their newscasts . Those are easy targets to skewer , but the movie mines more truth from its subject than some in the biz will want to admit . Half of Anchorman had me laughing on cue ; the other half made me want to switch channels . Anchorman establishes Ferrell as a formidable comic force reminiscent of Steve Martin when he was The Jerk or Chevy Chase when he was Fletch . 	Filled with inspired silliness and quotable lines , Anchorman is n't the most consistent comedy in the world , but Will Ferrell 's buffoonish central performance helps keep this portrait of a clueless newsman from going off the rails .
annie 1981 There 's bad and then there 's bad and then there 's Annie They do n't build movies like this anymore . Many people said John Huston was an odd choice to direct Annie and he proves them right . The songs never take off into anything very much , the whole atmosphere ( apart from the climax ) is distinctly stagebound , and Huston merely reveals why he had never before in his long career been hired to make a musical . The movie offers an insulting 'let them eat cake ' gesture toward the 1982 audience , but the pacing is so ragged and the characters so lifeless that few will be able to stay awake long enough to feel offended . Huston 's biggest misfire ; ponderous and sluggish . Whenever the kids are singing , you 'll want to put their numbers on infinite loop . Tale of cute orphan is great for the whole family . Most of the movie featured doe-eyed , orphaned girls either getting abused by a boozehound or doing manual labor This charming musical based on the comic strip character Little Orphan Annie features many memorable songs and pleasant dance numbers . 	John Huston proves an odd choice to direct , miring Annie in a sluggish , stagebound mess of an adaptation , but the kids are cute and the songs are memorable .
what time is it there A determined , ennui-hobbled slog that really does n't have much to say beyond the news flash that loneliness can make people act weird . Alternates between deadpan comedy and heartbreaking loneliness and is n't afraid to provoke introspection in both its characters and its audience . The weight of the film 's opaque , numbingly studied details ... is oppressive . A funny and moving meditation on yearning , mourning and the vagaries of time . It 's the kind of leap a director makes when he has become so sure of the techniques and themes that have preoccupied him that he seems unable to make a wrong move . The film 's understated humor and relatable character 's steer us towards feelings of compassion and understanding , rather than pity . At times , Tsai 's approach makes viewing this film like watching paint dry , but what a sublime design it makes . A rare film that actually expands and deepens in the memory when its time on screen has run out . His best film remains his shortest , The Hole , which makes many of the points that this film does but feels less repetitive . Eccentric , haunting and resonant . 	Though it requires patience to view , What Time Is It There ? 's exploration of loneliness is both elegant and haunting .
jersey girl Smith has concocted a painfully predictable soap opera that would fit in very nicely on the Lifetime Network . A predictable and sugary been-there-before story . While sweet and stupid , it still provides for good entertainment due to its heart and wit . Affleck is modest and engaging , which keeps the movie out of Gigli territory . But it 's close . The movie rises above its cheesy contrivances to emerge as Smith 's most mature ( and most moving ) work to date . As with all of ( Kevin ) Smith 's movies , Jersey Girl is both good and bad Jersey Girl does have two reasons to see it , and their names are Liv Tyler and George Carlin . It takes more than a couple of dirty one-liners to retain your edge in light , predictable fare . Affleck is at ease in this down-to-earth drama in a way that he never seems to be in his action movies , and Castro seems like a genuine child instead of like a child actor . It almost works as a nice little film , but it 's not the kind of story we want from Kevin Smith . 	A surprisingly conventional romantic comedy from Kevin Smith , Jersey Girl is warm but often overly sentimental
good thief This is not a movie that anyone would steal ... [ a ] superficially pleasing work that a single good night 's sleep can erase from memory . Thanks to Jordan 's whip-smart dialogue , Chris Menges ' dazzling camera work and Nolte 's shambling bravura , The Good Thief is as irresistible as its hero . If director Neil Jordan was going for criminal cool , he hit the jackpot with The Good Thief . The grizzled Nolte is perfect as the mumbling , stumbling Bob . Nolte sounds like a muppet now , and the film itself is n't very engaging . Mr. Jordan has lovingly recreated much of what glittered in the hard French thrillers that once starred Delon and Belmondo , and provided a superbly customized vehicle for the salty charms of ashtray-voiced Nick Nolte . Observed through the twitchy prism of Nolte , this Bob offers a brilliant contrast to the original . When it comes to movies about one last , high-stakes score , Nolte in The Good Thief pales next to Gene Hackman 's low-keyed brilliance in Heist . We came , we saw , we forgot . Plenty of smoke but no fire in 'The Good Thief ' There 's a sad , compulsive , edge-of-the-abyss desperation to Nick Nolte 's intuitive and informed performance ... 	Bolstered by Nolte 's strong performance , The Good Thief brims with seductive style .
certified copy Deceptively simple , but very well done . For a film that demands so much audience involvement , it somehow also effortlessly sweeps the viewer away . A spectacularly adroit and daring piece of cinematic legerdemain , Abbas Kiarostami 's `` Certified Copy '' may be too clever for its own good . Spoken in three different languages , with various coffee , wine , and bread products consumed by the characters , it satisfies on almost every level . Has the appeal of a middle-aged Before Sunrise . The best way to look at this is as an acting exercise . As long as your patience holds , it 's mildly diverting . A film about people discussing people , which attempts to do something different ? Believe it - or not . Abbas Kiarostami 's Tuscan sun-dappled enigma is the cinematic gift that is going to keep on giving for decades . The movie threatens to become a sketch about a coquette and a boor squabbling at each other to little effect . `` Certified Copy '' promises more than it delivers , but the limited portions are fresh . 	The main stars are absolutely perfect in this absorbing , existential drama that dissects human relationships .
foxcatcher You want to know where it 's headed . But the movie is so chiseled down and sculpted that even once it gets there ( you know when ) , it 's unclear that it 's earned it . These performances are beyond reproach , which makes it even stranger that the film never quite turns into the crushing experience it feels like it should be . Is n't interested in speed , just character , and it achieves a stunning depiction of obsession and jealousy , punctuated by a devastating true-crime conclusion . The filmmaking is spare but incisive and , together with the performances , this film should dominate any awards conversation this fall . Like du Pont himself , Foxcatcher draws us in without really allowing us to get under its skin . The movie 's bouts are Hobbesian-nasty , brutish , and short- and who wins has little or nothing to do with the Olympic virtues preached every four years . By the end , it 's evident that the filmmakers feel the same way about the American class system . This is your quintessential Hollywood long , boring movie ... without an iota of pace ... with the further detraction that it does n't explain a thing about Olympic wrestling , a sport with arcane rules that could use some explaining . Director Bennett Miller 's a poor biographer but a good storyteller . Plays like a mega-ponderous , aggressively prestigious chunk of awards bait - like , say , Bennett Miller 's 'Capote ' - spliced with an awkward yukfest . Carell 's performance is exaggerated , pronounced and so prominent that it obstructs other features . 	A chilling true crime drama , Foxcatcher offers Steve Carell , Mark Ruffalo , and Channing Tatum a chance to shine -- and all three of them rise to the challenge .
stay Rod Serling would have wrapped this mysterioso story about a psychiatrist and a suicidal patient dislocated by time , space and a lot of crazily raked angles into a tight half-hour episode . Some people find this twisty and twisted psychological thriller arty and pretentious . I find it arty and provocative . Stay has all the signs of a look-what-I-learned-in-film-school movie . Another exercise in alienated chic , Stay plays like an impenetrable collage . The movie 's chilly moods and eerie suggestions do n't amount to much , and all the weirdness leads to a pip-squeak of a payoff . Stay wants to be good , creepy fun , but by the middle of the film , I was so uninterested in the plot I became obsessed with McGregor 's pants A head-scratching thriller ... What Forster 's missing is an emotional connection - identification with something primal beneath the surface disorientation . A metaphysical film that has no existential thoughts in its head . A sappy melodrama touted in a supernatural angle ... A psychological thriller in a category by itself . 	A muddled brain-teaser , Stay has a solid cast and innovative visuals but little beneath the surface .
hero First and foremost , this is a film that exists for its sheer visual beauty -- and in that , it 's nothing short of breathtaking . Stunningly stylized period actioner in which the pen really is mightier than the sword . Breathtaking masterpiece . Stands well above Zhang 's lesser works while not ranking among his masterpieces , the redundancies of its plot redeemed by the spectacular poetry of its battles . In what may be the movie 's most spectacular set piece ... Zhang pits the sword against the pen and fends off war with knowledge and non-violence . Yimou 's films have always showcased some of China 's finest actors , but he has struck gold with this cast . Filled with unforgettable scenes . Though Yimou never achieves the romance of Ang Lee 's dabble in martial arts , he reaches new heights of spectacle with the combat . Voluptuous and amazing , this is n't a martial arts film -- it 's the apotheosis of the martial arts film . And it 's a stirring national epic , too . Hero is a real kick -- to the head and the heart . 	With death-defying action sequences and epic historic sweep , Hero offers everything a martial arts fan could ask for .
71 2015 Its pitilessness is matched only by its economy The Troubles have rarely been more troubling onscreen than they are in '71 , a vivid , shivery survival thriller that turns the red-brick residential streets of Belfast into a war zone of unconscionable peril . Having settled on Belfast , the film-makers revel in the artificial fibres , shaggy hair , and nicotine-yellow ceilings of a particular place at a particular time . `` '71 '' is a well-crafted , tense film and an excellent debut for its authors . It 's beautifully shot , smartly written and packed with suspense . But Top Boy director Yann Demange and Black Watch writer Gregory Burke do slightly over-egg the plot . Both an intensely personal odyssey and an exploration of the impact of conflict on communities , this sharply involving thriller marks an auspicious debut for director Yann Demange . Succeeds as a riveting historical drama that features winning performances and first-rate direction . '71 does n't always work , but when it does , it 's a blistering , gripping tale of a boy lost in a war gone horribly wrong . A blistering , disturbing portrayal of one British soldier 's attempt to get back to his Belfast barracks after being stranded behind enemy lines during the Troubles . Within its limited compass , '71 packs a punch , and the lack of political bias does give it a more encompassing feel . 	Powerfully directed and acted , '71 stays true to its fact-based origins while remaining as gripping as any solidly crafted action thriller .
changing lanes A film that dares to probe , intelligently , into some of those most essential , difficult American issues : race and class . One of the most impressive movies of the year ; taut and compelling . Illustrates how easy and tempting it is to take the path of petty revenge , and , conversely , how difficult it is to choose to do the right thing . For all the hubbub , the messages here are dismayingly simple-minded . It pulls the rug out from under you , just when you 're ready to hate one character , or really sympathize with another character , something happens to send you off in different direction . It is plainly less interested in particular characters ( their trajectories are pretty corny , in the end ) than the abstract concepts they embody . When Affleck starts talking in metaphors toward the end , you do n't want to change lanes -- you want to change theaters . It winds up as one of the most cogent and moving films I 've seen in recent years on the precariousness of human relations . An ethical thriller about two men whose biggest enemy is not each other , but their unwillingness to take responsibility for their own actions . It sticks with its characters and does n't exploit them in order to orchestrate some grandiose revenge scenario befitting a C-grade thriller . 	Though some may find its conclusion unsatisfying , Changing Lanes is a tense , well-crafted exploration of meaty ethical dilemmas .
magic mike On the scale of chick flicks , Magic Mike is probably a 10 , combining large quantities of male stripping action in a nightclub setting and a soppy romantic tale It 's guilty of some sleight-of-hand hokum , but in pulling the rug from under the norm , `` Magic Mike '' turns a trick . Magic Mike takes a familiar story and transforms it into something modern , unique and beautiful to look at ( and I 'm not just talking beefcakes , here ) . For all the titillation the stripping scenes may have for the film 's core audience , Magic Mike also has a well-told story worth telling . An entertaining workplace comedy with a dark ( and well-oiled ) underbelly and some predictable romance to leaven the raunch and swagger . Magic Mike is raucous , often ludicrously indecent and quite likely to send home women home thinking they 've just had the cheapest hen night out in history . The film 's portrait of self-delusion and gradual awakening makes for compelling viewing , even if it 's eventually somewhat undercut by a pop-romance ending that seems undeservedly tidy . The eye candy is worth every penny of your ticket price . This is destined to be either embraced as `` real '' and `` authentic '' or condemned as lacking a certain erotic quality , especially in the man meat department . Like any good strip tease , the film has a way of clouding your judgment . Though it may not have you throwing dollar bills at the screen , it is likely to leave a smile on your face . 	Magic Mike 's sensitive direction , smart screenplay , and strong performances allow audiences to have their beefcake and eat it too .
1153341-breakfast on pluto Roaring with real life , Breakfast on Pluto belongs in that treasured subgenre , the gender bending memoir ... Cillian Murphy gives a career high performance as Kitten , so silky , so tough , so completely real that it haunts us . It 's as coy and callow as you 'd expect from a movie with a lead character nicknamed Kitten . Murphy 's turn as the irrepressible Kitten is simply mesmerising - outrageous , tender and full of the sort of deep pain that no amount of make-up can conceal . Breakfast on Pluto may seem a fairy tale at times ( no pun intended ) , but this Kitten has claws . This is not for everyone , Jordan 's stuff never is , but if you 're into good acting it 's worth a look . Playful , poetic , shocking , saddening , and ultimately gratifyingly and honestly big-hearted . An odd , at times off-putting mixture of camp inflection and earnest insight . [ Jordan ] successfully grafts two Irish literary modes , snappy social satire and gloomy dirge . Jordan plays the Crying Game again for this darly affecting epic . Episodic and uneven , the movie is a must-see with its tour-de-force performance by Cillian Murphy . 	Well-acted if monotonous drama about a transvestite prostitute in London during the 1970s .
steep You can choose to risk a heart attack watching these skiers take off on 55-degree mountain passes or breaking your neck trying imitating them yourself . Thrilling sport . Great photography . While it desperately wants to crossover to a mainstream audience , it is what it is : a movie for skiers . Remarkably , given the extraordinary descents captured on film and despite the less than subtle stirring score , the film is ultimately lacking in any real excitement . Unquestionably one of the most amazing films dealing with man 's battle against nature since Kevin Macdonald 's Touching the Void With more white powder than even Al Pacino 's nose housed in 'Scarface ' , Steep pushes human endurance and achievement to the limit with indescribable eye-popping crazy feats of Big Mountain glory . Steep is one of those rare endeavors able to touch on the human condition without neglecting the film 's true star : big-mountain skiing . Sometimes it takes escaping death to feel alive -- especially if we have survived a cancer scare , a road accident or some other potentially fatal encounter . But Steep is about those who actively seek that dance with danger . Steep is a throwback to the early days of movies when the sight of things in motion was a thrill in itself . Seeing leaves rustling in the wind or waves on the sea was a marvel . A tedious movie about excitement . It gets a little wearing , hanging out with these lions , but there 's no denying the beauty of the landscape , with its fluttering avalanches , plumes of powder and vertiginous , zigzagging descents . 	Steep is a mixed bag of breathtaking mountain footage and yawn-inducing banter .
blade trinity Chances are that Goyer 's cack-handed direction has killed a franchise he helped birth . Goyer 's film is an entertaining though a hit and miss addition to the franchise . The movie is present , sexy and fun , but it 's probably time to give this franchise - and Snipes ' permanent scowl - a rest . One ca n't fault Wesley Snipes for dragging his aging body for a third installment of the financially successful `` Blade '' series ... ** It does have a few laughs , but it 's time to end the franchise when the best thing about the movie is Ryan Reynolds ' abs . Blade : Trinity is a carbon copy of its predecessors . It 's all kick-ass attitude and style without any substance to back it up . After three installments this Blade is getting rusty . Blade : Trinity gives us front row seats to watch the end of Wesley 's career and the career of Parker `` Former Indie Queen '' Posey . David Goyer steps up to the directorial plate this time , and while his hack-rate dialogue is better than usual , his direction is nothing special . It 's not even worth a matinee . 	Louder , campier , and more incoherent than its predecessors , Blade : Trinity seems content to emphasize style over substance and rehash familiar themes .
me you them Irresistible because it goes against expectation . Its plot loses momentum about halfway through and gets stuck in its own precious rut . Thanks to a superb cast headed by the popular Brazilian actress Regina Cas , this unorthodox tale is ultimately believable . A peculiar masculine fantasy . It develops its own unique charm . Works because the story is sympathetic to the feelings of the characters , observes them as individuals . If people in the movies are going to live in dirty shacks without plumbing or senses of humor , they better do something compelling to hold my interest . An adroit , beautifully acted , sophisticated film . A much more authentic and accomplished film than , say , last year 's pseudo-Latino 'import , ' Woman on Top . Waddington provides us with a valuable view into the lives of the 'real people ' of the large coffee-producing country . 	Me You Them tells a warmly comical and touching story , and features a charismatically earthy performance by Cas .
mr woodcock While two novice screenwriters are officially credited with the script , the movie lurches around like something assembled by committee . Mr. Woodcock . Funny , right ? Mr. Woodcock , Mr. Woodcock , Mr. Woodcock . Gets funnier every time , does n't it ? It looks like Billy Bob Thornton has gotten to this lucrative W.C. Fields place in his career where he fills his coffers by playing endless variations on the same character . Mr Woodcock is never less than watchable , thanks to strong performances and some amusing dialogue , but it 's badly let down by a disappointingly weak plot . If Mr. Woodcock himself were to assess this movie , he 'd say , 'This movie is a disgrace to all goopy , gelatinous , half-baked movies the world over . ' Enjoyable enough while it lasts , but also instantly disposable . Certainly , it 's mediocre , but no more so than half the comedies that are wildly promoted by their studios these days . Another addition to the Comedy of Humiliation genre plays like Meet the Parents with a lot less warmth . Billy Bob Thornton simply could n't be better as the rude , tyrannical P.E . teacher whose answer to everything is '10 laps . ' A painfully unfunny and mean-spirited comedy , in which Billy Bob Thornton simply plays the same acerbic jerk character he 's been playing since Bad Santa , and jockish Seann William Scott tries to pass himself off as a former high school loser . 	Underutilizing a talented cast , Mr. Woodcock lacks the comic energy and timing to make the most of its intriguing premise .
mr poppers penguins 2010 Look out for perky Brit Ophelia Lovibond , who provides a perfectly pleasing performance as Popper 's alliteration-prone assistant , Pippi , who peppers her pronouncements with a profusion of p 's . Director Waters , who knows his way around young adult fare having directed such films as the 2003 version of `` Freaky Friday '' and `` The Spiderwick Chronicles , '' again shows a keen eye for finding humor in everyday life As bastardizations of beloved children 's books go , this one is n't terrible-certainly not as offensive as The Cat in the Hat , for instance-but it has the potential to be a genuinely good movie and blows it . That 's a real shame . In a total ... With a bit of heart , a bunch of cute penguins , Jim Carrey not overplaying it too much and a dash of Angela Lansbury Mr. Popper 's Penguins actually turned out to be quite charming . Be prepared to spend long , nerve-wracking months telling your progeny that there is no way they are ever , ever going to have a pet penguin . Remember Adam Sandler in Click ? Robin Williams in Hook ? Eddie Murphy in The Haunted Mansion ? Then congratulations , you 've already seen this movie . Just when you think penguin mania is over , here comes 'Mr . Popper 's Penguins ' starring Jim Carrey plus the cutest bunch of penguins ever to waddle across the screen and steal your heart . If Mom was still alive , she would be as mad as a wet hen . Or maybe a dry penguin . Carrey fans will be let down by the rubber-faced one playing straight man to a pack of penguins . While kids may find the plot p-p-past its sell-by date . It used to be that a comedian had to make an armed services comedy . Now , we stick them in domestic stories about daddies who learn family is more important than work . 	Blandly inoffensive and thoroughly predictable , Mr. Popper 's Penguins could have been worse -- but it should have been better .
catch and release The film 's slight , quirky characters are driven by a soundtrack designed to tell us exactly how to feel . And perhaps that 's not such a bad thing -- in this case , something had to . Juliette Lewis helps break the monotony with a sparkling turn as a ditsy skeleton in the dead fianc 's closet and Kevin Smith spouts a few good zingers as the slacker housemate . Sadly it 's not enough to catch and keep hold of your interest . The sense of New Age romantic serendipity and Zen whimsy writer/director Grant strives to invoke in 'Catch and Release ' just does n't register . It 's such a bland example of its genre , it may as well have been titled A Romantic Drama Starring Jennifer Garner . A strange fish of a film , Susannah Grant 's directorial debut Catch and Release glitters and reeks . Calling this a chick flick is maybe too easy . The film is for people who want to leave the house but watch TV without going to a bar or hotel . Bring along a remote and you can be fully comfortable . Sadly lifeless . Suffice it to say that when the best thing you can say about a movie is the soundtrack was decent ( catch the old Lemonheads tune in the beginning ) , it 's not worth the trip to the theater . The kind of movie that just ca n't seem to have enough annoying self-absorbed people around to rattle on about their life woes . Catch this release at your own peril . The predictable concept strains credulity . Throw it back ! 	A romantic dramedy with boring , stock characters and contrived situations .
terribly happy Terribly Happy is a comedy of misdirection of the blackest hue ... No noirish yarn this good stays obscure long It is wonderfully unhinged , and a painstakingly constructed meditation on a place where good and evil meet , mate , and make sour times sublime and , dare I say it , beautiful . It may not sound funny , but there 's a bleakly comic air about the story , and a bit of surrealism , suggesting the most caustic side of the Coen brothers . The movie is so artfully constructed that it gives you the sweats right up to the end . This is one avant-garde western ( and film noir and psychodrama ) that no one , Pig Bodine or otherwise , need recommend . Word is that Danish director Henrik Ruben Genz is planning to remake his latest film , Terribly Happy , in English . There 's not much room for improvement . Genz and Erling have constructed a story so clever that the pleasure of following its twists is enough in itself . With its fascinating story , perfect pacing and superbly moody camera work by cinematographer Jorgen Johansson , Terribly Happy takes you by a slow , purposeful surprise . Een the story 's sudden swerve into melodrama has the nightmare reality of film noir at its best . 	Led by Henrik Ruben Ganz 's assured direction , this knotty Danish noir thriller steers audiences into some nicely unexpected territory .
material girls Even by the low standards of the genre it represents , this female teen comedy represents a new nadir . A few funny lines spool out intermittently , but it 's the inane-ness of Material Girls that grates . While Hollywood sisters Haylie and Hilary Duff tell each other money does n't bring happiness , their actions speak otherwise A superficial tween comedy that mocks celebutantes like the Olsen twins while simultaneously pushing stars Hilary and Haylie Duff as their replacements . At the very least , Material answers the question everyone wants to know : yes , Haylie is the better actress . The film opens with the Duffs huffing and puffing their way through a remake of Madonna 's 'Material Girl , ' an ode to gold digging that Madonna sang with a touch of wry humor ; the Duffs perform it as if it was 'The Battle Hymn of the Republic . ' Under the circumstances , Anjelica Huston and Lukas Haas manage not to embarrass themselves , but only because they 're pretending to be in a different movie . This is indeed one dumb film . I barely buy them as sisters , let alone as whoever these characters are supposed to be . Is Anjelica Huston in need of work ? Is that why she 's in this piece of crap ? Light but listless . 	Plagued by paper-thin characterizations and a hackneyed script , Material Girls fails to live up to even the minimum standards of its genre .
more than a game An inspirational bio-pic about the transcendent magic of friendship forged in pursuit of hoop dreams . The film is pretty superficial in its reporting and is by-the-numbers in its storytelling . If the subjects were n't interesting , the movie would be a complete snore . Maybe Belman 's film will instill in youngsters an interest in documentaries , of which this is a generally fine example . 'More Than a Game ' is a riveting , emotional and inspirational documentary that captures the ups and downs of five young men who bonded as friends and teammates . Utterly captivating for the humanity at its core . An inspiring story that works very hard to remind you it 's an inspiring story at every opportunity . Belman does n't look into the bigger problems of James ' team jet-setting across the country during the school year , or the spectacle allowed to build up around him . A superb , slam-dunk documentary about young boys achieving personal and team goals on the basketball court . Like a gambler with an inside bet , you can know the final score , but still enjoy every second of the game . It 's always risky to mix sports metaphors , but it 's hard to resist the notion that the basketball-themed More Than a Game is a knockout of a sports documentary . 	Though the film may not delve as deep as some would prefer , More Than a Game is an inspiring documentary featuring likable youngsters , a positive message , and some exciting in-game footage .
you can count on me Thoroughly modest in its means and ambition , You Can Count on Me is one of the best pictures I 've seen all year . well structured without resorting to flashbacks A simple , beautiful story . This is a subtle , moving film , with great performances and a deceptively clever screenplay . I 'm not educated enough to do justice to the brilliance of this film . The lead characters are extremely well played by Laura Linney and Mark Ruffalo . Yet above all it is Kenneth Lonergan 's writing and direction that left the biggest mark . It 's simply a quiet and heartbreaking look at the dynamics of one family . That 's the beauty of it . A fountain of narrative surprise . You never know where this thing is going . And it 's such a pleasure to tag along with these characters . This film offers a literate script and is sensitively directed , it 's a brilliant debut as a director for playwright Kenneth Lonergan . You Can Count On Me is one of the best movies you 're likely to see this year , or any other year , for that matter . The best domestic comedy-drama in ages , a genuine American beauty without all the flash of American Beauty . 	You Can Count On Me may look like it belongs on the small screen , but the movie surprises with its simple yet affecting story . Beautifully acted and crafted , the movie will simply draw you in .
ip man A respectful biopic designed to pay cinematic homage to one of the great kung-fu masters and spread the word about the man . First and foremost , Ip Man is an excuse for Yen to demonstrate his newfound mastery of the Wing Chun style . On that front , the film succeeds brilliantly . A dazzling , exhilarating , refreshingly character-driven and thoroughly captivating experience that must be seen on the big screen . It 's unlike any martial arts film you 've seen before . Not only is it one of the most entertaining and exciting movies out of Hong Kong for many years ; Ip Man is a bona fide martial arts classic . As an exaggerated , myth-making martial-arts movie , Ip Man is often thrilling . There 's a pleasingly old-fashioned air to all the flying drop-kicks and straight-finger jabs , even if it lacks the cinematic agility we have now come to expect from this kind of thing . The action is enthralling even if the storyline does n't always have the ring of truth about it . The astonishing fight scenes are some of the most exciting ever filmed in a martial arts movie that raises the bar for the genre . For any martial arts fan , `` Ip Man '' is mandatory viewing . It remains an inexplicable , contextless bit of kung fu historicosploitation -- albeit a very satisfying one . Wilson Yip has crafted a gripping , rousing , beautifully structured yarn , built around a calm but charismatic star performance by Donnie Yen and magnificent action sequences choreographed by the legendary Sammo Hung . 	At once beholden to the established conventions of the genre and delightfully subversive of them , Ip Man is one of the most exciting -- and refreshingly character-driven -- martial arts films in years .
the diving bell and the butterfly 2007 You do n't want to blink : You wo n't want to miss a second of it . Una pelcula realmente conmovedora que logra trasladar a hermosas y sugestivas imgenes la experiencia real de un hombre paralizado fsica aunque no mentalmente . There is something cinematic about Bauby 's situation . Like the moviegoer stuck in a seat in the dark , he can only observe the action in front of him . His comments are unheard by the people who move before his eyes and attempt to manipulate his emotions . The Sea Inside by way of Lady in the Lake . The picture is so beautiful to look at that it 's practically buoyant . ... a film about a stranded man that bustles with vigorous energy , an exploration of the oceans inside human consciousness . The unique POV is not a gimmicky technique but a transferring of creative responsibility . The film is so stuffed with visual poetry and moving turns of phrase that it practically takes flight . It 's a subject and a film that perfectly blends the tragic with the triumphant . A film that haunts and inspires . 	Breathtaking visuals and dynamic performances make The Diving Bell and the Butterfly a powerful biopic .
freaky friday [ A ] delightful movie . While it 's a perfectly competent and affable film , the new version does n't have anything to prompt much enthusiasm . Moms and their teenage daughters have struggled for centuries to connect . Bridging that yawning chasm is the yin and yang of this cheerful , well-executed charmer . Freaky Friday is blandness personified . Maybe it 's only adults who 'll get teary-eyed -- kids just wan na have fun . And they will . Freaky , yes . And it 's also frantic and fun . There 's enough intelligence and wit here to sustain your interest , especially when Curtis and Lohan are in peak form . Curtis slinks back toward adolescence , then grooves on it as the regenerated hormones start kicking in . A likable but flimsy retread that 's barely worth the effort . A lot funnier than most movies you 're currently watching at the Cineplex . 	Jamie Lee Curtis and Lindsay Lohan charm in Mark Waters ' nicely pitched -- and Disney 's second -- remake of the 1976 hit .
results 2015 Bujalski might never crack Hollywood , but what does it matter ? He 's defiantly his own man . Results gets results . There 's a loose charm to this comedy that disarms the audience , raising smiles instead of laughter as three nutty characters swirl around each other . What makes Results so special is that it delivers all the conventional rom-com satisfactions while also stubbornly being it 's own unique thing . In truth , it does n't quite work , but the dissonance between the content and Bujalski 's approach is oddly compelling . Both Pearce and Smulders are given so much more to do than they would in , say , a Marvel film . Each of them has a strong , interesting through line , though the big winner here might be Corrigan . Despite a too-neat resolution , the characters have n't figured themselves out , much less their relationships , and Bujalski is perfectly comfortable sorting through their confusion . Results is the filmakers most accesible movie . [ Full review in Spanish ] You 'd expect Bujalski , who made Beeswax and Computer Chess and a couple of other extreme indies , to poke fun at gym culture , the ultimate soft target . And he does , but sweetly and without disparagement ... `` Results '' is not entirely successful ( the two main plots do n't quite fit together ) but it does have a charm and a style that works . A movie like this feels like a dream challenge for an actor . It lives and dies not sheerly by the writing and the direction of the script , but by the cast 's organic adherence to both . 	Results moves stubbornly at its own deliberate pace , but the well-chosen cast -- and writer-director Andrew Bujalski 's insightful observations -- offer rich rewards for patient viewers .
next friday Vulgar , stupid and un-PC as it may be , this sequel to 1995 's surprise hit Friday is also sporadically funny ... occasionally very funny . Ice Cube manages a certain bumbling charm that keeps the film churning along quite winningly for 90 minutes . Another plotless , pothead comedy . About as deep as an empty wading pool . Next Friday , after its midway mark , just lumbers until it fizzles out . The pic is too larky and goofy to come across as mean-spirited . A heaping piece of rancid garbage . Not a giggle , not a smile nor a smirk came out or across my face . Reduced to multiple skits woven together with a hyped soundtrack . Instead of inspired Hollywood Shuffle-style parody , we get caricatures of color and glib riffs about economic insolvency in black America . 	Next Friday lacks the fun of the original Friday . The movie is messy and plotless and relies on unfunny vulgar gags .
1017776-rocky Though far from a masterpiece , the first Rocky ( 1976 ) still feels fresh and miraculous , a true Cinderella story making Sylvester Stallone a worldwide star . The basic storyline has been done to death over the years ; this is still one of the most effective and successful applications of the formula . Look past the sequels to see something special in Sylvester Stallone 's boxing classic . A crowning achievement in Sylvester Stallone 's career as a writer and a performer ... It 's sometimes hard to remember what a great film the original Rocky is because its reputation has been hurt by too many unnecessary sequels . ... there 's simply no denying the film 's overall effectiveness ... I wanted to like it more than I did , but it 'll do . A paint-by-numbers inspirational sports film . Sylvester Stallone 's performance is sheer magic ; an authentic and touching portrait of a loser who becomes a winner in the things that matter . Give Stallone credit for going the distance in this film and not going down 	This story of a down-on-his-luck boxer is thoroughly predictable , but Sylvester Stallone 's script and stunning performance in the title role brush aside complaints .
mars needs moms Infused with a half-baked psychedelic ethos , incorporating some rather incongruous imagery that is supposed to tie in with its simple-minded politics regarding ideas of child rearing and gender roles . Family comedies about Martians do n't need to be plausible exactly , but they need to be smart and entertaining . This one is ho-hum , so-so and so what ? Forget about the IMAX and 3-D , wait for the dvd . Succeeds both as a sci-fi adventure and as a familial love story . Mars Needs To Work Out How To Animate Humans So They Do n't Look Like Possessed Shop Window Dummies . Introducing children to fun questions about evolution and gender politics , Mars Needs Moms is an odd , little hybrid of adventure and simplistic allegory . The whole fiasco turns out to be an excuse to let Seth Green play a ( redubbed ) little boy . Next time , maybe just cast a real boy , build some sets in an old barn , and have Mom make the costumes . [ Blu-ray 3D ] The computer approximation of Joan Cusack 's face looks like nothing . I do n't get how anyone can look at that and think , 'We 're onto something . Next time we 'll tweak the cheeks a little more . ' An extraordinary achievement in character expressiveness and realistic movement limited by a storyline for a pre-middle school audience . The perfect family film in every way , moms , dads , kids and even those Martians are gon na love this funny , warm and wonderful tale . 	The cast is solid and it 's visually well-crafted , but Mars Needs Moms suffers from a lack of imagination and heart .
trembling-before-gd My heart sang as I saw how much these tortured souls loved their ways and beliefs and how much stock they put in them . DuBowski 's sympathies are clear , but he does n't preach or condemn , preferring to find hope for a future reconciliation between the people he features and the rich , venerable traditions of their heritage . You do n't have to wear a yarmulke or even be Jewish to be affected by this traumatic story of religious intolerance . DuBowski latches on to a provocative subject and invests it with a compelling tenderness . the Orthodox and Hasidic Jewish version of Arthur Dong 's superior Family Fundamentals . Powerful documentary about the struggle of gay and lesbian orthodox Jews to reconcile their beliefs and their desires Short , but emotionally effective . This is a brave , groundbreaking film . This portrayal never becomes anything more than a typical 'talking heads ' doc . A heavy subject for any filmmaker to broach , and it definitely exceeds the skills of first-time director Sandi Simcha Dubowski . 	Trembling Before G-d looks at the effects of religious morality on believers whose sexuality falls outside the accepted norm with intelligence and compassion .
robots A fun ride with plenty of laughs , excitement and touching moments about living out your dreams no matter your make , model or build . The subject of robots is reduced to a cute story rather than being motivated by a substantial theme . ... in a world populated by living machines , not a single soul can be found ... Does not suffer from Shark Tale syndrome ; instead a good story with a good message and great performances . Far more interested in yelling 'look what we can do ! ' than in developing any of its characters or livening up its recycled story . The movie 's admirable theme , that there are things more important than profit , comes across under the virtuoso visuals that peak when endless falling dominos turn into a veritable ocean of the little black blocks being surfed by a robot . Cleverly clanky and colorful . Priceless special effects of the cast talking about doing the voices of these mechanical 'bots with a heart ... The film is very imaginative and you need to see it several times to appreciate the humor . An innate awareness that generating underarm faux flatulence is difficult when you 're made of metal , but not impossible , is just the spirit we need to see more often . 	Robots delights on a visual level , but the story feels like it came off an assembly line .
the wicker man 2006 Bad idea . Bad film . Neil LaBute 's remake of the British horror classic is as wooden as its titular effigy ... and wholly unnecessary . A half-compelling , half-goofy and half-redundant piece of remake revisionism . ( Yes , that 's three halves , but it 's that weird a movie . ) In the remake , LaBute has Cage beating up women with karate kicks , and has placed an insulting coda on the film that screams of studio intervention of the worst kind . This is not progress . Despite retaining significant chunks of Shaffer 's dialogue to go along with the basic story structure , LaBute has transformed the eerie , disturbing psychological thriller into an unintentional comedy . Ahhhhhh , what a waste of talent ! For shame ! ! ! ! ... there 's just something inherently entertaining about watching [ Nicolas Cage ] one-up himself every few minutes ... `` Every time I turn my head , '' he sputters , `` there 's something that does n't make any sense . '' Exactly . The whole thing is transparently a concoction , and so even though the movie holds you , its climax lacks that tingle of madness . All that 's burning is some sticks . Yet another needless 're-imagining ' of a '70s cult fave that , truth to tell , is better remembered than actually viewed , Neil LaBute 's folly follows the basic plot outline of the 1974 Brit horror opus of the same title . 	Puzzlingly misguided , Neil LaBute 's update The Wicker Man struggles against unintentional comedy and fails .
1046129-fugitive The film is so stylish , so funny and so heart-stopping in its suspense that the audience simply does n't care about flaws . Taut , effective serial-chase story . A rare example of everything in the Hollywood machine coming together in the right way at the right time and working perfectly . In many ways The Fugitive represents the pinnacle of a genre not much in style any more : the suspense/action picture . As nail-biters go , this one will have you down to the nubs . While there are actors in this film , there is n't much room for acting . The rapid editing and near-absence of dialogue reduces the actors to action figures with colorful labels pasted on their foreheads . Harrison Ford mostly just runs and fights , but that 's O.K . Running , after all , is what fugitives are supposed to do . Tommy Lee Jones offers the fun and drive of this largely implausible but highly enjoyable remake of the popular TV series . I 've already seen The Fugitive twice . I 'll probably see it again . A terrific thriller that may stretch the credulity of the audience at times , but leaves them well-entertained for better than two hours . 	Exhilarating and intense , this high-impact chase thriller is a model of taut and efficient formula filmmaking , and it features Harrison Ford at his frantic best .
cobb Stump is well-played by affable Robert Wuhl , who has the unenviable responsibility of representing the one sane man in Ty 's crazy universe . If you 're looking for a sugary-sweet baseball hero story , this ai n't it ; but it is an entertaining story about a great ex-player who could make Albert Belle look like Mother Theresa . Ty Cobb is such a towering figure in this motion picture that it 's easy to overlook Al Stump -- and Robert Wuhl 's feisty , witty performance in the thankless role . This is a messy movie , sometimes repetitive , sometimes too compressed and allusive . But that 's like saying Ty Cobb was not a very good sport -- irrelevant in comparison to the horrific fascination of his story . It 's unclear just how much sympathy we are to extend the unrepentant and bullying title character . Cobb 's accomplishments on the ball field would make for an absorbing documentary , but it 's the passions and pitfalls of his private life that dominate Ron Shelton 's melodramatic film . Tommy Lee Jones gets mad respect for this . Despite Jones ' performance , it 's a disappointing biopic A curiously gripping amalgam of Patton , Citizen Kane and Melvin and Howard . Ron Shelton , whose Bull Durham and White Men Ca n't Jump were jokey tales of disillusionment set in the sporting world , here redefines the life of an idol with a certain honest savagery . 	Tommy Lee Jones 's searing performance helps to elevate Cobb above your typical sports biopic ; he 's so effective , in fact , that some may find the film unpleasant .
monsters vs aliens Monsters Vs Aliens made me feel like a big kid again . The voice casting is superb , with Hugh Laurie and Seth Rogen the standouts along with Witherspoon . There 's also plenty of amazing action . The epic battle over the Golden Gate bridge is as exciting as any top live-action movie . Pilfering everything from Mothra to Attack of the 50 Foot Woman to Men in Black and Monsters , Inc. the script piles on the mayhem and forgets the funny . A big , silly spoof of an animated film , fast and funny and visually dazzling . The grandeur of the effects -- the honest-to-God spectacle of the thing -- elevates Monsters vs. Aliens to something approaching art . It 's not a masterpiece , but it 's most certainly a milestone . Fast-moving and sweet-natured with some healthy messages about tolerance and female empowerment , Monsters Vs Aliens is a lot of fun . Enjoyable , frequently funny comedy with strong , likeable characters , impressive animation and a script that 's packed with both terrific gags and subtle movie references for film fans . The 3-D enhances the movie rather than detracting from it and that is not always the case . A loud , rushed , choppy , silly , colorful Nintendo game of a movie . And it could have been DreamWorks ' version of `` The Incredibles . '' Monsters vs. Aliens tries very hard to entertain every demographic in the audience , although it 's at its most enjoyable when it 's not trying quite so hard . 	Though it does n't approach the depth of the best animated films , Monsters Vs. Aliens has enough humor and special effects to entertain moviegoers of all ages .
lawless heart Never shouts out its emotional explorations . Instead , it employs a soft , secure voice , and the viewer is lulled even more by the authentic , unadorned performances of a strong ensemble . It takes a while to get used to the fractured narrative , but once done it is easy to put your mind on autopilot and go with the offbeat characters and events . Leaves you with the impression that it could go on and on , picking up loose threads and exploring stray implications . More remarkably , you find yourself wishing it would , because these absolutely ordinary people turn out to be infinitely interesting . It 's an intriguing experience . It 's frustrating because it is so well made and acted but can never find much of anything to say . As heartbreaking as grief itself and as unexpectedly lovely as that warm certainty that our beloved friends and family continue to inspire us even after they 're gone . It thins out until the repetitive format begins to seem , well , repetitive . Like so many British movies , it seems made for actors who make what they humanly can of it , their expertise meshing . Hats off to Hunter and Hunsinger for their robust and rounded treatment of the emotional education of three vulnerable men who are not used to dealing with their deepest yearnings . It is so adroit in its structure , so insightful in how it explores its vivid characters that it forces us to acknowledge not only how complicated all lives are but also how easy it is to be self-centered and miss those complications in everyone else . 	Unconventional and refreshing , this strikingly un-Hollywood film takes a quiet and heartbreaking look at the warmth and inspiration of friendships lost .
cry-baby Even diluted Waters is better than no Waters at all . Johnny Depp is extremely well cast in John Waters ' sweet-natured fable about rebellious youth There are some funny moments , but this may be the first time the director 's scabrous , anarchic wit seems vaguely depressed . It has a great score of obscure '50s rock and doo-wop . It has the candy-colored look of a '50s musical . What it does n't have is a moment of anything that seems remotely real . Unhinged and inventive It 's a satire that functions the same way the stuff it 's satirizing does . Waters 's writing is woefully uneven . It 's as if Sam Kinison had decided to tell knock-knock jokes -- sterile , unfunny knock-knock jokes at that . Pink Flamingos fans will find Cry-Baby decidedly tame , but it 's one of my favorites . One of Waters ' most accessible oddities . A strangely off-putting musical farce . 	John Waters ' musical ode to the teen rebel genre is infectious and gleefully camp , providing star Johnny Depp with the perfect vehicle in which to lampoon his pin-up image .
coming home 2014 Coming Home stays remarkably grounded , anchored by fine performances and unsullied by oversentimentality . It may move you to tears , but it wo n't push you there . Technically gorgeous with a half baked story , Coming Home is far from Yimou 's best ... This miniature of a family in crisis [ ... ] is richly rewarding , even without fiery battles , lavish set-pieces or high drama . Zhang Yimou is now 64 years old , and the personal pain that permeated his last film to deal directly with the Cultural Revolution , To Live , has faded to a sad resignation and a mood of tender forgiveness in the emotional Coming Home . Chen and Gong , two of China 's most respected actors , offer two great performances in a film about love , loss and perseverance that will nearly break your heart . A modern yet timeless tragedy that 's desperate , sad and rich with devotion . As Lu and Feng struggle to reconnect , and find themselves settling for the oddest of dependencies , it 's hard to be unmoved . Zhang dabs on salve and comforts the afflicted . He lets this intimate , bittersweet reconciliation implicitly stand for the nation at large . Coming Home is an affecting pocket magnum of a melodrama : it looks small and hits big . Zhang Yimou has long been celebrated as one of China 's greatest living filmmakers , and his craft is no less evident in Coming Home . 	The rare tearjerking melodrama with sociopolitical subtext , Coming Home plucks the heartstrings with thought-provoking power .
chandni chowk to china Chandni has martial- arts montages and Bollywood song-and-dance numbers . As tacky as the latter are , they 're the sweet -- and only ? -- draw of the movie . They also give this slight comedy-adventure its epic and unearned length . This is a pretty entertaining work for the most part despite its unevenness and for those who have never experienced an authentic Bollywood film before , it will serve as a perfectly good introduction to that style of filmmaking . Insufferable . Burdened with insipid plotting and lame comedy . Chandni Chowk to China seamlessly adds kung fu to the usual blend of comedy , dance and melodrama . Half Bollywood , Half Chinese , all nonsense spectacle . Nikhil Advani 's sprawling action-comedy has the feel of great ambition designed by committee . Like the cinematic equivalent of someone appearing on Mr. Blackwell 's Ten Worst-Dressed list , the movie is a garish mix of conflicting styles and genres , cross-pollinating overproduced musical numbers , cheesy melodrama , and kung-fu . Shapeless , shameless , and slapdash . Tries to juggle Bollywood musical with martial arts action and slapstick comedy and fails at all three . If Chandni Chowk To China is not exactly original , it steals wisely , resulting in a movie that moves and entertains ( even if it 's too long by at least a half-hour ) . Results are wonky , with its detriments mainly attributable to its Indian influence . 	A thin plot is disguised by high octane dancing and action in this Bollywood crossover comedy .
500 days of summer Smart , fresh romcom takes realistic look at relationships . What is unexpected is the sincerity beneath the modest conceit that , yup , love hurts . Just when you thought Hollywood had run out of original ideas for quality rom-coms comes this slice of witty , smart loveliness . A simple , refreshingly honest comedy . I loved ( 500 ) Days of Summer for many reasons , but for this one the most : I felt more during this movie than I have in any other romantic comedy in years . ( 500 ) Days of Summer knocks several romantic movie clichs on their ear , but never loses sight of heart or hope , and it never fails to make the ups and downs between Tom and Summer matter . Perfect casting and all-around craftsmanship make this delightful , music-fueled contemporary rumination on a big-city romance a big summer surprise . Highly recommended either to enjoy as a couple or wallow in alone . The ending is tidy and way too cute , but ( 500 ) Days is otherwise a different kind of love story : an honest one that takes a piece out of you . ... one of the most entertaining and flat-out original romantic comedies to come around in quite some time ... 	A clever , offbeat romantic comedy , 500 Days of Summer is refreshingly honest and utterly charming .
on her majestys secret service One of the best Bonds , usually underrated because of Lazenby 's performance and constant comparison to Sean Connery . But it has withstood the test of time . What are Bond 's problems now ? They 're too numerous , as usual , to hold the constant attention of anyone other than a charter member of Her Majesty 's Secret Service . ... Lazenby is actually pretty good as Bond . George Lazenby took Bond 's reins from Sean Connery in this sixth 007 outing , an unfairly oft-maligned film that , while distinctively different than the rest of the series , is still quite fun to watch . Lazenby is n't all that bad , really . Top Bond production overall helps . An odd interruption in the Bond canon that 's neither an unsung masterpiece nor an unmitigated disaster . It 's half terrific , half terrible -the former most often when George Lazenby shuts up and Peter Hunt 's masterful action instincts take over . Ditching flash in favour of character development , this stylish and energetic entry is one of the best films in the series . Lazenby woz robbed . Director Peter Hunt manages to inject some life into this 1969 exercise with a wonderful ski chase , but otherwise the film is a bore . Essential Bond viewing . It should definitely be among the five Bond films to make someone a fan of the series . 007 in ski country -- and marriage territory ? 	George Lazenby 's only appearance as 007 is a fine entry in the series , featuring one of the most intriguing Bond girls in Tracy di Vincenzo ( Diana Rigg ) , breathtaking visuals , and some great ski chases .
eat pray love I stopped trusting the movie . At the end of the two and a half hours we get to the same point of all the other stereotypical chick flicks . This is an overly intellectual version of any other Jennifer Lopez or Kate Hudson romantic comedy . Eat Pray Love is like an overstuffed lightweight suitcase , with little room for us to feel the emotional connections Liz makes with new friends along the way . Eat Pray Love lies across the screen like a patient on life support whose ticker is about to tick its last tock . A nice leisurely pace . In a summer dominated ( as always ) by male-skewering titles , this is a richly rewarding experience for discerning grownups who would n't be caught dead seeing Grown Ups . Eat Pray Love is the cure for insomnia . The film is boring and a gigantic advertisement for The Travel Channel , Food Network and Lifetime . During the India scenes , Liz accuses Richard from Texas of spouting a bunch of bumper-sticker slogans ... as though her revelations are any better . We 're not so much involved in the movie as idly registering it -- eavesdropping , almost , on a conversation at an adjoining table . It seems determined to drag tears out of the audience , when the quiet , underplayed moments are the ones that pack the true firepower . 	The scenery is nice to look at , and Julia Roberts is as luminous as ever , but without the spiritual and emotional weight of the book that inspired it , Eat Pray Love is too shallow to resonate .
wood The growing-up stuff is kind of wonderful . Nelson hilariously and poignantly portrays Mike 's journey into puberty . Nice , but lacks the substance it needs to make us feel as good as it wants us to . Funny , awkward , or poignant ! With tender storytelling instincts and a keen ear for teenspeak , Famuyiwa flaunts a knack for feel-good comedy . It is unremarkable in every way , save one -- the cast is African-American . A respectable debut . Awkward performances , unsure directing flaw The Wood . Choppy coming-of-age story . It 's got heart and it 's much smarter and funnier than you 'd be led to believe . 	A charming piece of work with believable characters .
yella German writer-director Christian Petzold transforms the classic American cult movie Carnival of Souls into a bleak drama about soul-sucking alienation in the reunited Germany . Far less concerned with character development than with bludgeoning clues to the drama 's true nature . This unusual film has all the appearance of simply being a well-done drama , but there is considerably more on writer-director Christian Petzold 's mind . The consequences of Reunification are explored in this effective metaphysical thriller . Strikes a perfect balance between corporate intrigue and metaphysical mystery ; his 2007 drama is filled with suspense but ends in delicious ambiguity . It 's one of those films that keeps swirling in your brain once it 's done -- thanks both to its somewhat unresolved ending and to the many subtle themes touched on throughout . A rich , inventive and atmospheric thriller that is somehow able to reveal the final twist while retaining its mysterious allure . Petzold , a leading light of the current generation of young German filmmakers , succeeds in making the modern world strange again . Christian Petzold 's disquieting German thriller feels modest while you 're watching it , but makes a stronger-than-expected impact . An expertly crafted thriller which offers a pessimistic , though deeply rewarding , glimpse of a society being haunted by its own past . 	Chilly and haunting , Yella 's atmosphere gets under the skin .
kite runner Whilst some of the vivid detail in Khalid Hosseini 's best-selling novel does get lost in translation , director Marc Forster hits all the emotional high notes . Calls into question why Hosseini 's novel was such a chart-climber in the first place other than being one of the first published pieces of fiction to use the Taliban as a subplot after 9/11 . The Kite Runner is a curiosity in that it is a film driven almost entirely by its story , to the point that all the actors - save the fiercely patriarchal Homayoun Ershadi as Amir 's father- seem purely functional , if not negligible . The part of the film set in Kabul ( actually filmed in China ) is fascinating , breathtaking and exciting . If The Kite Runner flies only to flutter and fall a bit , at least it flies for a while . A glossy and admirable condensation of the immensely popular novel ... Faithful to the bestselling novel on which it 's based , The Kite Runner is a thoughtful , often heart-wrenching story about betrayal and redemption . The type of film one would expect from Marc Forster -- banal , trite and apt to ramrod simplistic symbolism down viewers ' throats . Compelling story , well rendered . Fascinating character study and not about kids flying kites . 	Despite some fine performances , The Kite Runner is just shy of rendering the magic of the novel on to the big screen .
mutual appreciation Alan , Lawrence and Ellie , intersecting here and there with a circle of acquaintances and strangers , insinuate themselves into the viewer 's heart like good friends . If this is the sound of a new generation , then it may be the first generation cautious enough to embrace friendship as mightier than love . The focus is narrow , but its scrutiny is absolutely unerring . Every scene in Bujalski 's films is a little awkward , and just right . Just because you shoot semi-improvised scenes in black-and-white does n't mean you 're the new Jim Jarmusch . Bujalski 's writing is so good , and every shot and edit seems exactly right . Any other romantic melodrama would have them bubbling over with passion , but these characters are painfully tentative and believably so , given that they 're both betraying someone they care about . To capture the mundane rhythms of everyday existence without being tedious is a tough task , which makes the difficulties [ director ] Bujalski has had getting his films distributed a puzzling and frustrating thing . The grainy , black-and-white look and the characters ' ethos dovetail perfectly . The painful honesty and geeky cool draws you in , but the film 's sweet-natured humour seals the deal . 	Director Bujalski continues to give cinematic voice to awkward , literate twentysomethings with noteworthy smarts and tenderness .
lethal weapon 4 Let me just say , Jet Li ROCKS in the kind of American debut Jackie Chan or Chow Yun-Fat would have killed for . I heard audience members yelling out , 'Rewind it -- I wan na see that again ! ' It matters little that the film is rife with non sequiturs , nonsense and nihilistic violence , because its heroes are so darn buoyant and charming . Crass , vulgar , childish , ultraviolent , profane , stupid and appealing to the lowest common denominator of movie audiences . And yet ... With 'Lethal Weapon 4 ' we find the silliest and most sentimental of the bunch . The plot is really just an excuse for some wild stunts and flashy martial arts demonstrations , and Lethal Weapon 4 does n't compromise on either . You can relax and let the good guys dazzle with stunts and thrills ... Pardon me for having groaned in anticipation of what , in the full perspective-warping heat of the summer movie season , turns out to be one of the nicer blow-'em-ups around . The bad guy plot is dull and tiresome ; the real charm of the film lies in its comedic elements and character relationships . Lethal Weapon 4 has all the technical skill of the first three movies in the series , but lacks the secret weapon , which was conviction . 	Jet Li 's arrival breathes fresh life into a tired franchise formula -- but not enough to put Lethal Weapon 4 on equal footing with its predecessors .
grzeli nateli dgeebi Among the best features to come recently out of Eastern Europe , featuring the tough-minded cinematography of Romania 's Oleg Matu , who shot 4 Months , 3 Weeks , and 2 Days . Bold and brassy , Georgia 's Best Foreign Film entry may not be the cheeriest viewing but it 's still a compelling coming-of-age drama . Co-director Nana Ekvtimishvili 's script , nurtured on memories of her own childhood , becomes more focused , even sourly funny , as it evolves . The leads are played with freshness and mischief by Lika Babluani as Eka and Mariam Bokeria as Natia . This is a story of adolescence and female friendship under pressure , explored with a quietly engrossing combination of familiarity and strangeness . The two nonprofessional actresses shine . It matter-of-factly lays out the predicaments of its characters , balancing a strong , implicit feminist sensibility with a sympathetic sense of the power of tradition . While `` In Bloom '' offers an authentic slice of life from a particular time and place , it never gets close enough to its characters , physically or emotionally , to really hit home . The performances are naturalistic and severe , especially the highly volatile families , where shouting matches are almost traumatising to hear and to watch . But ... the film ends without having said enough to satisfy us This haunting coming-of-age film is set in a country that itself is coming of age . 	A coming-of-age drama entwined with a political statement , In Bloom underscores its well-worn themes with strong performances and palpable real-world tension .
cradle will rock Robbins has made the classic mistake of thinking that art that 's persecuted for its political ideals must be good art . Art and politics collide in Tim Robbins ' ambitious but not entirely successful effort to recreate a unique moment in American culture circa 1937 . The direction of the film is so slow that I got carpal tunnel syndrome from raising my hand so often to check the time . Remarkably complex , funny and thought-provoking . Al final , se convierte en una colorida celebracin del arte como forma de expresin , como compromiso de trabajo y como medio de reivindicacin de justicia . An interesting and vibrant look at American theater . A history lesson taught by a truly interesting professor . Unquestionably repetitive and simplistic . If you 've got some time to kill and have seen everything else , put this on your list . '' A rollicking , joyous excursion . 	Witty and provocative .
monsieur lazhar 2011 The film understands the complex bond between teachers and students , and how the classroom is a sacred space they share for a short time before moving on . Fellag , a comedian and himself an exile from Algeria , makes Lazhar both a sensitive and an amusing figure . And the kids are just terrific , especially Emilien Neron as a boy who carries the guilt of the whole school on his shoulders . `` Monsieur Lazhar '' sustains an exquisite balance between grown-up and child's-eye views of education , teacher-student relations and peer-group interactions . Takes the fairly dreadful 'teacher who makes a difference ' sub-genre and puts an interesting new spin on it that gives it the allure of something fresh . The film , alas , seems determined to be as careful , as gentle , as Lazhar himself . How do we get past tragedy ? Together . Monsieur Lazhar manages to weave humor into its essentially serious story and reveal layers of its characters ' personalities step by step . Monsieur Lazhar is a film to cherish . Thankfully , the impressive cast of child actors actually behave like children , not like miniature adults . Monsieur Lazhar is a tender and touching drama that captures the pulse of both primary school politics and Canadian immigration . 	Monsieur Lahzar is a tender and thoughtful portrait of a man with hidden grief and also a compelling exploration of the teacher-student dynamic .
1155467-glory road The acting is strong , the games are exciting , and despite the serious message about racial equality , it 's actually pretty funny in spots . Disney runs history through the same Hollywood melodramatic redo that made Miracle , the Olympic hockey saga , such a crowd pleaser in 2004 and The Rookie a winning baseball film in 2002 . By knocking the edges off Glory Road , Bruckheimer has turned a raw , compelling story into bland pudding . It 's one helluva story , and if this moving , and even thrilling little movie finally brings Haskins and a truly great American sports story to light , then three cheers and hooray . As Coach Haskins would say , it wins because it sticks to the fundamentals . The fact that it 's loosely based on a historical event does n't change anything . Formula is formula . Similarities between Glory Road and Remember the Titans ( 2000 ) are purely intentional . ... Deals with the issue of race about as realistically as can be expected from a Disney movie . Do n't demean this picture . This is n't just one of the worst sports movies of all time ; it can hold its own with the worst of any genre . If you 're not a basketball fan , this film is boring , manipulative , and banal . If you are a basketball fan , it 's worse . Another true ( ish ) story of a Vietnam-era sub-Mason-Dixon Line sports team played by and for Crackers , and the topsy-turvy struggle they must all undergo when the Blacks come and make them all feel intermittently uncomfortable and angry . 	As formulaic as sports movies get , this underdog story still triumphs on the strength of its inspiring story .
dodgeball a true underdog story I have to hand it to a comedy that works this hard at being mediocre . In the end it just felt like we were being told one long joke but were never given the punchline . . . . a laugh-out-loud romp that holds its own against comedy classics like Office Space and Airplane ! , a zinger destined to become a dorm-room essential . The most satisfying comedy of the past year -- at least among the ones starring Stiller . Yep , a full five stars . I loved every last frame of this inspired little sports comedy . Ben Stiller is too over-the-top , but the pic has solid one-liners . I dare anyone not to laugh when the balls start boinking off bodies in this smart 'dumb comedy , ' which hits its targets more often than not . Feels far too smug about its underachievement to be a persuasive nerd movie : This is more a film by Hollywood frat boys slumming for some quick summer money . Stiller gives one of his broadest and best performances to date , and the jokes ping around the screen as fast as the balls on the court . The screenplay 's wit is genuinely impressive . 	Proudly profane and splendidly silly , Dodgeball is a worthy spiritual successor to the goofball comedies of the 1980s .
mystery men Usher 's amiable spoof of superhero movies takes a brave stab at rewriting the mythology from the inside out , with lots of witty , mildly subversive stuff . This droopy action comedy saps Hollywood 's best comic actors of their superpowers . Surprisingly , this spoof 's heart is genuinely warm . A zany and hilarious comedy about a wannabe band of superheroes . ... better than sitting at home on a hot summer night watching the sitcoms . Or maybe it 's exactly like sitting at home on a hot summer night watching the sitcoms For all the name actors and elaborate scenery , Kinka Usher 's film is amateurish . An absurd , if overpolished , gem of all-too-human proportions ! The sum does n't quite add up to the potential of its parts . Mystery Men is like its hapless heroes . It 's a wannabe that has the best intentions -- including a pronounced anti-gun stance -- but none of the knack it takes to save the day , or itself . Those in the mood for an offbeat satire with a gifted cast will have a surprisingly good time . 	Absurd characters and quirky gags are brought to life by a talented cast , providing this superhero spoof with lots of laughs .
mr brooks The film emerges as a subtle commentary on a disquieting aspect of our current culture -- a commentary on the nature of a masturbatory voyeurism and how it fosters heartlessness by turning other people into objects . A meticulous killer with family issues ; a cop with problems of her own ; secondary murderers on the loose ; a plot with unexplored depths - this could have been a decent TV series . If ever a movie epitomized the term 'overplotted , ' it is Mr. Brooks . [ Mr. Brooks ] piles subplot upon subplot , making what should have been a taut , disturbing thriller feel bloated and aimless . The movie is a missed opportunity . It has all the ingredients of a delightfully twisted , sleek little thriller . But with all that extra padding , Mr. Brooks is just one bloated mess . Mr. Brooks manages to be deeply loathsome -- no small feat for a film that 's shallowly amateurish . This wannabe highbrow horror-thriller is a graceless , unfocused piece of work with a central narrative as tonally schizophrenic and wayward as its lead . Only someone who has n't watched TV for 20 years would think that portraying Brooks as a high-minded monster makes him more than a run-of-the-mill thrill-killer . There is some refreshingly good , old-fashioned storytelling in this movie . delivers more of a soap opera-like story about everyone 's personal lives , whether you find that interesting or not , and whether these lurid details are important to the plot or not . 	The setup is intriguing , but Mr. Brooks overstuffs itself with twists and subplots , becoming more preposterous as it goes along .
1118700-adaptation ... the most surreal motion picture experience since ... well , Being John Malkovich . Both Kaufmans are played by Nicolas Cage , whose goofy , moon-faced sincerity has never been put to funnier use . One thing has been made very clear -- Being John Malkovich was n't a fluke . It 's the most original , exhilarating and hilarious movie of the year . Adaptation would all be insufferably clever-clever were its motivation not so genuine . Instead it is experimental , funny , with a tightly-repressed anger and a desire to dig out truth rather than take refuge in the usual artifice . It will confound some and inspire others to riff endlessly on its mysteries . A 21st century pop angst commentary and a uniquely American masterpiece , Adaptation is so far the sole major studio film of 2002 to challenge the basic tenets of cinema , to push the envelope for filmmakers and audience alike . Adaptation may not be the first movie to examine the creative process . But it 's the most playfully brilliant . Trazendo Nicolas Cage em excelente desempenho , o filme faz uma crtica cida ao modus operandi de Hollywood e prpria auto-indulgncia de seu autor , o genial Charlie Kaufman . Adaptation 's success in engaging the audience in the travails of creating a screenplay is extraordinary . 	Dizzyingly original , the loopy , multi-layered Adaptation is both funny and thought-provoking .
1008166-general Keaton proves as endlessly clever and athletic as his screen surrogates ... chock-full of hilarious sight gags , including bits of business that incorporate moving trains , cow-catchers , a bear ( and bear trap ) , and a misbehaving cannon . [ Blu-ray ] A hilarious comedy and a thrilling action film . The General has it all . Its peerless mixture of exciting action and kinetic comedy are one of moviedom 's supreme pleasures . This is by no means so good as Mr. Keaton 's previous efforts . One of the greatest films of the silent era . The film boasts the most sustained passages of virtuoso slapstick genius Keaton ever shot , and an unflagging momentum that lets it get away with being a reel longer than most of his best-known pictures . The General is n't likely to be the favorite opus of the star 's purist fans , but it 's the one with the trappings of ambition and historical poesy Sure , it 's got that cornball '20 's dialogue and plays the underdog Confederacy as the heroes , but it 's a truly fantastic piece of cinema . Perfection . Silent masterpiece is enter-train-ment for all ages . 	Brilliantly filmed and fueled with classic physical comedy , The General captures Buster Keaton at his timeless best .
kung pow Totalement con et absurde , mais aussi totalement hilarant . A processed comedy chop suey . The laughs are as rare as snake foo yung . The year may be young but it 's going to take something extraordinary to top this as the worst film of 2002 . The concept is a hoot . The trailer is a riot . The movie is a dud . The film is so bad it does n't improve upon the experience of staring at a blank screen . You 'd have to search far and wide for a movie as gleefully stupid as Kung Pow : Enter the Fist , but you 'd never find one so bereft of laughs . A bad idea poorly executed . Mocking kung fu pictures when they were a staple of exploitation theater programming was witty . Mocking them now is an exercise in pointlessness . This is the type of movie best enjoyed by frat boys and college kids while sucking on the bong and downing one alcoholic beverage after another . 	A short sketch 's worth of jokes stretched into a full-length feature .
keep the lights on A tough , well-acted little indie ... The cast , uniformly excellent , draws us into a vibrant , energetic Manhattan where commitments are forged and broken through sheer chance and those seeking permanence must continually resist temptation and ennui . A brutally honest , at times embarrassingly raw , attempt to capture a modern day , urban relationship ... bittersweet and filled with memorable details , a huge leap forward for [ director ] Sachs . What makes Keep the Lights On more interesting than your average addiction story is the subtle suggestion that Erik 's dependence on Paul and his messes is just as debilitating as Paul 's taste for drugs . Lindhardt conveys the inability to give up on a romantic obsession and subplots about the rest of his life ... feel natural . But Booth 's Paul ... is a hollow center . Keep the Lights On acknowledges ( without belaboring ) the performative nature of identity ; how each of our claims to selfhood , be it sexual , romantic , or professional , are staged on a shifting terrain of habit , fantasy , and desire . A complex and mysterious tale of a love affair , one that lacks the tidy story arc of a movie but feels real . This is a painful drama , but its pain is more studied than emotive , and it demands that we think just as much as it makes us feel . `` Keep the Lights On '' is both warm and a bit inscrutable . It feels like the work of a man who 's in a better place but still sifting through past heartache . A poignant case study in the changing contours of gay life . 	Keep the Lights On is a mysterious , sexy journey deep into the love affair of two men that always manages to stay true to life .
starting out in the evening one of the year 's most pleasing films , intelligently written and directed , and featuring a veteran actor giving the performance of his career Starting Out in the Evening is a 'small ' movie . But in its keenly observed examination of strangers who become intimates -- and of family members who remain , in part , strangers -- it has big things to say . Slightly too understated , but also thoroughly involving . Refreshingly subtle . In a role that reminds one of Peter O'Toole 's in 'Venus , ' Frank Langella is receiving buzz as a potential Oscar nominee in the role of an aging novelist emotionally charged by a visit from a graduate student 45 years his junior . Langella is superb , and Starting Out in the Evening is a classy film ... but it could have used a little less circumspection , a little more juice . Frank Langella 's performance is a compliment to an already brilliant film ... Criminally overlooked , this is a great movie , about which I could find no complaint or overt flaw except feeling that Taylor ( whom I do love ) was mostly a distraction . See it if you can . Starting Out in the Evening has the feeling of a film in which the actors , left to direct themselves , played into their own self-indulgent instincts , and the only one who resisted was the old pro who knew better . Frank Langella and Lili Taylor give great performances in what is essentially another painfully slow and bland digitally-shot indie drama . 	Starting Out in the Evening features sharp dialogue and moving performances from the talented Frank Langella and Lili Taylor .
dancer in the dark Noble , even interesting but also long and ultimately flawed experiment . As a big fan of Bjrk , I greatly enjoyed her often stunning work both as a singer and an actor here . In fact , she does a better job of generating sympathy for herself than von Trier does for Selma . Von Trier is vicious when it comes to milking the melodrama . Much of it comes across as a giant , misshapen ego trip . Some will hate Dancer in the Dark , but I loved every raw , vibrant moment of it . Likely to alienate purists but may charm a younger audience drawn by Icelandic actress-singer-songwriter Bjrk . It 's a carefully crafted provocation that both undermines and expands the notion of what makes a movie musical . Far from unwatchable , this provocative film is still haunting and irritating me days later , and that 's probably the best reaction any artist could hope to elicit with his works . A thought-provoking , emotionally resonant , and innovative cinematic experience . This is likely one of the most emotionally devastating films ever made . 	Dancer in Dark can be grim , dull , and difficult to watch , but even so , it has a powerful and moving performance from Bjork and is something quite new and visionary .
greenberg The dramedy is richly written and Stiller 's acting delivers , though his unlikable narcissist may put off audiences . The big discovery , however , is Gerwig , whose dreamy blonde -- lost in a post-college haze -- comes off earthy and instantly appealing . Cinematographer Harris Savides captures the relentless , rather terrifying sunniness of LA without ignoring the smog . Baumbach 's script and direction has brought out the best in everyone on-screen . A film of powerful , memorable moments -- some striking dialogue , some great performances , a handful of beautifully played , bracingly discomfiting love scenes -- in search of a structure and , perhaps , a soul . The characters are so socially destructive that it 's difficult to care what happens to any of them . Jason Leigh 's acting-writing teaming with Baumbach is just as exciting as Stiller 's triumphant return to the neurotic kingdom . Misery loves company . Parental Content Review Enjoyable character study from writer-director Noah Baumbach that makes up for its relative lack of plot with a superbly written script and terrific performances from Ben Stiller , Greta Gerwig and Rhys Ifans . Far from the usual slapstick laced with smarts comedy , Greenberg is Ben Stiller 's Punch Drunk Love . Movies about insufferable people do n't have to be insufferable themselves , but when a tangible arc is lacking and no credible change is made in who they are from beginning to end , the viewer is left to question what , exactly , the point is . A typically low-key effort from Noah Baumbach ... 	Greenberg 's title character is harder to like than most , but Ben Stiller 's nuanced performance and a darkly funny script help take the misanthropic edge off .
nowhere-in-africa A good story , exceedingly well told . It is so rare to find a film where you become quickly , simply absorbed in the story . You want to know what happens next . There 's a lot more to Nowhere in Africa -- too much , actually ... Yet even if the movie has at least one act too many , the question that runs through it -- of whether belonging to a place is a matter of time or of will -- remains consistent . It did n't move me . Absorbing and moving . It 's exactly the sort of import you 'd expect to walk off with an Academy Award . Intriguing story , artfully developed characterizations , and fine performances carry the film to excellence . A well-acted , exquisitely photographed , plot-jammed movie that sinks into melodrama and reveals too little about the African culture and landscape in which it 's set . It 's beautifully shot and too long , and contains pained references to the Holocaust ; it 's a movie tailor-made for awards rather than for personal reasons . A likely contender for next spring 's Foreign Film Oscar . 	A visually lovely epic with compelling , three-dimensional characters .
jingle all the way A career low-point for Arnold Schwarzenegger . Yes , even worse than Batman & Robin . If it were n't for the credits 'A Brian Levant Film ' and 'Directed by Brian Levant , ' one would be certain that the director was Chris Columbus . God forbid Arnold should have to shell out for one of those Spanish-speaking turbomen being hocked in the bad part of town . The film is rescued by a strong third act , but getting there is torture . He 's running California and he agreed to make THIS ... The overall effect is disquieting - too simplistic for an adult comedy and too angry for a children 's movie . I liked a lot of the movie , which is genial and has a lot of energy , but I was sort of depressed by its relentlessly materialistic view of Christmas , and by the choice to go with action and ( mild ) violence over dialogue and plot . And one wonders why Sinbad has n't made any movies since Jingle All the Way wo n't win any awards for believability , but as purely escapist family entertainment on a grand scale it 's a tough act to beat . The practice of buying indulgences did n't die with the Middle Ages , it just sort of metastasized into something black and malignant at the heart of our society . 	Arnold Schwarzenegger tries his best , but Jingle All the Way suffers from an uneven tone , shifting wildly from a would-be satire on materialism to an antic , slapstick yuk-fest .
anvil the story of anvil The biggest surprise is not the pervasive comedy in this compelling rockumentary . It 's the poignant , even heartbreaking , moments that sneak up on you as the saga unfolds . If you can forget Spinal Tap ( hard ) , it 's rather touching the way these 50-year-olds still have the forged-in-fire fortitude . Not as interesting as last year 's rockumentaries Heavy Load or Heavy Metal In Baghdad and is nowhere near as funny as Spinal Tap . Anvil ! The Story of Anvil is a documentary about the moderate rise and long , long fall of their band , where musicians in the two other slots came and went , but Lips and Robb rocked on . Anvil ! has been described as the `` real-life Spinal Tap '' , but it 's sometimes more like a heavy metal remake of The Wrestler . A complicated portrait of complicated men , an adeptly assembled character study that shows how limitless fame and fortune might not be the real recipe for happiness . Although my fondness for heavy metal music knows many bounds , I still found `` Anvil '' to be a charming and enormously entertaining film Funny , sweet and often interesting ... but the desperation is so tangible it proves exhausting Affectionate but revealing ... a deeply human piece that 's hilarious one moment and touching the next . I care about Anvil , I think the documentary needed a little bit more . 	A touching , uplifting and inspirational rockumentary about an aging metal band , both hilarious and heart-warming in equal measure .
scott pilgrims vs the world This is a romantic adventure for the ADD age , a pop poem for Millennials that could just as well be titled Scott Pilgrim '' vs. the Old Ways of Storytelling . Scott Pilgrim is a film where youth is power and power is music , video games , and confronting your exes with how great your current hook up is , but like most hipsters you meet , it is more impressed with itself than anything else Magical realism meets Mortal Kombat , as magical combat and mortal realism fire up a sweet , funny and blindingly original first-love tale . A total blast . A wild comic journey into the head of a true original . Michael Cera elevates deadpan to an art , starring as a slacker turned action hero in this wildly inventive comedy . [ Its ] self-awareness is the saving grace . As long as nothing is taken seriously , everything is permitted , from leaps in logic to caddish heroes . An impressive and ambitious achievement , one that manages to feel both meticulous in all its hilarious detail and at the same time , rambunctious and heartfelt . Edgar Wright is cinema 's most inspired mash-up artist , and Scott Pilgrim vs. the World may be his finest hybridization to date , a romantic comedy recast as a mle-heavy video game . It 's supremely annoying to see the ups and downs of romance reduced to archer-than-arch line readings and bloodless mortal kombat . Features a lot of old ideas presented in new ways , and that skewed approach manages to make both action and romance seem like the freshest things at the movies . 	Its script may not be as dazzling as its eye-popping visuals , but Scott Pilgrim vs. the World is fast , funny , and inventive .
save the last dance The leads shine and the relationship really grew on me . There 's not much more to ask for in a movie like this . An interracial romance between an aspiring ballerina and a hip hop devotee that sets off sparks within the African American community where they live . For my money , it 's the girls ' friendship that holds the film together . The high school repartee has snap , crackle and pop , but the romantic drama is strictly cornflakes that have been left in the milk too long . Looks at interracial relationships from a fresh perspective and gives the audience something real to think about . An admirably heartfelt story with more on its mind than the glory of self-expression . A recycling of the cliches created by Dirty Dancing , Flashdance , Footloose and Saturday Night Fever . The playing of ballet against hip-hop gets more than a little corny , but the charismatic young performers make the corn work . The plot is ultimately more teen drama gimmick than it is an actors ' showcase or a vehicle for altruistic insight . A decent , well-put-together romantic drama to hold hands to on the weekend . 	This teen romance flick feels like a predictable rehashing of other movies .
1075422-hamlet A vigorous , four-hour adaptation that 's 100 percent Shakespeare and 100 percent cinema . If you 're willing to sit through Branah 's 4-hour Hamlet , you 'll be rewarded with a lavishly mounted , full-bodied version that brings new dimensions . Viewers patient enough to sit through four hours of this film are going to be rewarded with a memorable experience . Kenneth Branagh directs and stars in a vibrant , full-text , full-hearted film from Shakespeare 's most complex tragedy . Stars Kenneth Branagh as a vigorous man of action who sets out to accomplish his mission with firm resolve . La cinta de Branagh evit rescatar momentos cumbres y opt por dar fuerza al guin original . There are many ... instances when you want to run screaming from Elsinore Castle . A few cameos seem out of place , but the rest is pure magic . Branagh combines one of the Bard 's best plays with some of the best filmmaking the medium has to offer . The film equivalent of a lushly illustrated coffee-table book . 	Kenneth Branagh 's sprawling , finely textured adaptation of Shakespeare 's masterpiece lives up to its source material , using strong performances and a sharp cinematic focus to create a powerfully resonant film that wastes none of its 246 minutes .
the royal tenenbaums There are chuckles a-plenty , and the experience wo n't tax your brain . A winning hand indeed . The Tenenbaums 's self-referential outlook , wayward agendas , wanton destructiveness and wishful fantasy make for a highly entertaining spectacle , provided you acknowledge you 're watching a churning status quo that will never alter in essentials . Surprisingly pure entertainment , with well-timed and original humor based on old problems that recur in any family . Ever wish you could have followed Alice down the rabbit hole ? Drop in on the Tenenbaums ; you 'll get the same result . Juicy to look at , the movie sustains its enchantments , even when it gets a little too smug for its own good . An interesting film but somehow removed -- somehow flat even when it 's funny . A ROYAL pain . It made me squirm instead of laugh . Funny , touching , intelligent , strange ... well , let 's just stop before we run out of superlatives . There are so many unexpected delights that you can forgive Anderson and Wilson for failing to craft a coherent whole . 	The Royal Tenenbaums is a delightful adult comedy with many quirks and a sense of poignancy . Many critics especially praised Hackman 's performance .
1118698-empire The thing looks like a made-for-home-video quickie . Too clumsy and vulgar a melodrama to be viewed as a calculated piece of racism , but its obtuse unawareness does n't excuse it . A mostly tired retread of several other mob tales . John Leguizamo may be a dramatic actor -- just not in this movie . Like its protagonist , the movie tries to rise above convention , flails about a bit , and slides back into self-parody . A witless , unoriginal mishmash of gangsta-drama clichs . Victor is great character , played with macho zeal by Leguizamo . Victor Rosa is Leguizamo 's best movie work so far , a subtle and richly internalized performance . Guns , blah , blah , blah , drugs , blah , blah , blah , guns , drugs , and money , blah , blah , blah . John Leguizamo wastes a terrific performance on a gangster drama that would be unwatchable without him . 	In terms of the gangster genre , Empire 's story is yet another tired retread .
ghostbusters 2 Kids will find the oozing slime and ghastly , ghostly apparitions to their liking and adults will enjoy the preposterously clever dialog . Feels like a blueprint concocted by the bean-counters at Columbia Pictures . The sequel is , on the whole , a fairly mechanical spook show , filled with grinning ghosts that are definitely ghoulish but hardly menacing . Hammered together out of the junkiest of elements , the movie rattles along with a pleasing rambunctiousness , tossing off its quips and one-liners and scoring on a remarkably high percentage of them . There 's plenty to enjoy here and fans of the group wo n't care about the shortcomings . The film is largely an excuse for a cast get-together , with the Ghostbusters , under judicial restraining order after the havoc wreaked in part one , suffering lives of semi-obscurity . A terrible disappointment , a shockingly self-satisfied and unforgivably slapdash sequel . Almost as sharp as the first film and only suffering slightly from the inevitable repetitions . An almost uniformly substandard follow-up that , since the original film remains so beloved by so many people , still gets to be disappointing even two decades and change later . Effectively slimed everyone 's fond memories of the original . 	Thanks to the cast , Ghostbusters 2 is reasonably amusing , but it lacks the charm , wit , and energy of its predecessor .
bukowski born into this Bukowski is one of my all time favorite writers and now I have an all new respect for the man thanks to John Dullaghan 's phenomenal film . Its power springs from the director 's shifting between fawning stories from long-time acquaintances and the scraggly , take-it-or-leave-it surliness of Bukowski himself . Charles Bukowski - who was n't always particularly pleasant , but who was always pleasantly particular - would have loved this gruff homage . Bukowski : Born Into This presents a spunky up-close and personal portrait of a bohemian , cantankerous writer who stayed the course . Dullaghan 's thrilling documentary about the life and times of Charles Bukowski is the stuff that legends are made of . As a thorough examination of what made this boozing , brawling womanizer tick , Born Into This ca n't be beat . [ Bukowski ] is never seen in less than fighting spirit or formidable form throughout the documentary Bukowski : Born into This . Without straining , this definitive , deeply engrossing film biography makes a strong case for Charles Bukowski as a major American poet . Accomplishes beautifully what it sets out to do , which is to reveal the man behind the crusty , hard-drinking , tough-talking persona Charles Bukowski so artfully crafted . This thorough documentary is essential for the poet 's fans . 	A thoroughly engrossing documentary examining the life of talented but troubled writer Charles Bukowski .
ninth gate The movie is so crisply done , with such class , that it keeps you engrossed . This supernatural mystery is an uneventful , drawn-out , and colossally disappointing return to the screen for the once-compelling director . Watching The Ninth Gate is like being force-marched through dank rooms piled high with musty books , led by drab tour guides who mutter the same pedantic points over and over . [ Goes ] on too long and has too many endings . Slack , often ludicrous . ... Polanski light , glimmers of the old genius playing his cards gleefully , then losing his cool at the end . A lengthy exposition , a meandering plot , and overattenuated dialogue . Warts and all , Polanski is back . I kept hoping Polanski would take the plot by the neck and shake life into it , but no . Sexy , sardonic and slightly over the top , it definitely contains Polanski 's best work in years . The movie is a kicky college course in demonology , whereas The Blair Witch Project seemed to be a truant from horror kindergarten , one with poor prospects of graduating to The Sixth Sense . 	Even though the film is stylish and atmospheric , critics say The Ninth Gate meanders aimlessly and is often ludicrous . And despite the advertising , there 's hardly any chills .
elektra Girlfriend should have stayed dead . Having died in Daredevil , Elektra has returned without a vengeance to bore us all to death . Despite her valiant front , Elektra ca n't separate personal from professional problems . Elektra would have been far better off staying dead . A none too Marvel-lous spin-off from Daredevil . In a world where hair extensions are licensed to kill , where Fredericks of Hollywood is the official outfitter of vigilante justice ... Giving a spec/polish script to a neophyte director and demanding a low-end vehicle for today 's hot eye-candy is not the way to bring superheroes to life . Just ask Halle Berry . No one will confuse Jennifer Garner for Meryl Streep , but she has a solid turn here as a woman who makes a big show of having withdrawn from the world but really has n't . [ Garner ] does all the stuff you can see her do on Wednesday nights -- namely , some of her own stunt work in outrageous costumes -- but without an ounce of zeal , charisma , or purpose . Comic book spin-off has a star in Jennifer Garner , but no script -- which makes it a hyper-cut bore . 	Jennifer Garner inhabits her role with earnest gusto , but Elektra 's tone deaf script is too self-serious and bereft of intelligent dialogue to provide engaging thrills .
lost in translation An effective mood piece about cultural dislocation and personal alienation ... One of the purest and simplest examples ever of a director falling in love with her star 's gifts . Sera terrible quedarse en la superficie y no dejarse arrastrar por las sensaciones que propone esta pelcula . Nothing happens and there is nowhere to go in Tokyo . As a character study , the film works very well . As a romance or drama , however , it is nearly inert . This study into the unfathomable depths of human relationships has more honesty than 95 % of the movies I have seen this year . Has the languid intensity of a dream . Transcends its initial culture clash comic riffs to evolve into something altogether more moving by the end . As a result , it 's a work of considerable power and pathos . You 'll see it because you love Bill Murray . But somewhere about halfway through you 'll realize that you 're watching something much more than a dramatic vehicle for Hollywood 's clown prince . ... Coppola 's more interested in establishing the mood of this foreign land , instead of allowing us to really get to know the two central characters . 	Effectively balancing humor and subtle pathos , Sofia Coppola crafts a moving , melancholy story that serves as a showcase for both Bill Murray and Scarlett Johansson .
the room 1998 It is a prime example of enthusiasm outrunning talent . PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE gave me nowhere near as many belly laughs . Tommy Wiseau is a bit like Shatner or Schwarzenegger before they became self-aware . A movie so bad , so inept , so unbelievably painful , it 's almost impossible to comprehend anyone thought it would be great on-screen ... What puts `` The Room '' in a class of its own is its overabundant idiocy . While you 're still gasping at one of the film 's moronic lines or vagrant plot knots , another one rises up to smack you in the head . To make a movie that 's so bad it 's good you need vision , drive , luck and obsessive vanity . Fortuitously , The Room 's writer/producer/director/star Tommy Wiseau appears to possess all of these qualities , combined with a total lack of acting talent . If you experience brain damage as a result of watching this film , I disavow any responsibility whatsoever . In the dynasty of dung , among the many pretenders to the best worst movie throne , Tommy Wiseau and his oddly named tragedy truly earns their rotten rep . And that 's the conundrum of `` The Room . '' It 's so very bad that it becomes riveting . The Room , has been maligned as one of the most inept movies ever made when in fact it is a sardonic comedy about sexual politics in the age of terror . Watching The Room is like crossing over to a counterfactual universe where the rules of film grammar and screenwriting have been written by Dan Brown . 	A bona fide classic of midnight cinema , Tommy Wiseau 's misguided masterpiece subverts the rules of filmmaking with a boundless enthusiasm that renders such mundanities as acting , screenwriting , and cinematography utterly irrelevant . You will never see a football the same way again .
jiro dreams of sushi As artful as it is appetizing . Gelb apparently understood that his subject was itself so taking that he would n't need filmic embellishments to keep his viewers alert . It does not try to make any broad claims about it subject beyond simply observing , this is what he does , this is why it matters , and this is his legacy . [ VIDEO ] There 's nothing flashy about David Gelb 's serviceable rendering of a man who has achieved an unrivaled mastery of a cuisine he helped invent . You too might come away from the movie dreaming of Jiro Ono 's sushi . As a documentary about world-class sushi , this film is definitive . It runs only 81 minutes , but the subject is finite . If you have any kind of affinity for the food at all , you will very much want to dine at Sukiyabashi Jiro , regardless of the distance or cost , after seeing Jiro Dreams Of Sushi ... Gelb creates a peaceful , contemplative mood with his long shots of men delicately molding fish onto rice , such that when Ono walks past a blaring shopping-mall video-screen at one point , the intrusion of the modern world seems out of place . It 's an interesting exploration of a particular aspect of Japanese culture , which is fathers and sons working together . It 's a very likeable film , and sometimes , that 's enough . If you 're a Japanophile or a sushi nut , you 'll likely be in heaven . delves deep into the qualities of dedication and perfectionism It is as much a family saga as a visit to sushi nirvana , and that adds an unexpected and satisfying narrative to this visual stunner . 	Beautiful , thoughtful , and engrossing , Jiro Dreams of Sushi should prove satisfying even for filmgoers who do n't care for the cuisine .
1068461-heavy metal Exemplifies the notion that the euphemism `` adult material '' almost exclusively denotes content which is chiefly of appeal to people other than adults . It 's a mixed bag , but successful in a mindless , adolescent way . ... An unabashed crowd-pleaser . Whenever possible , it goes for the fight scene , the sex joke , the jiggly breasts ... Heavy Metal has been animated with great verve , and scored very well , with music much less ear-splitting than the title would suggest . ... visually stunning some of the time and stunningly juvenile the rest . Anyone from the era will love it , while everyone else simply wo n't get it at all . This animated movie based on the comics of the same title is fun once you accept it on its own terms , i.e. , brainless and adolescent . Wild animation , tons of blaring rock music , and fanboy wish fulfillment fantasies of the freakiest order . Good campy fun . Fantasies that are gratuitously sexist and Fascist ( macho whoring and warmongering ) , and whose roots reach all the way back to post-hippie paranoia , feed the tangled plot-lines of a movie that ... should disappoint even the teenage wet-dreamers . Archly stunted and incalculably influential 	It 's sexist , juvenile , and dated , but Heavy Metal makes up for its flaws with eye-popping animation and a classic , smartly used soundtrack .
hot chick It 's sad and depressing when in order to get a laugh a Hollywood movie has to stoop to replaying gags that would have made the Three Stooges blush . `` Freaky Friday , '' it 's not . The slapstick is labored , and the bigger setpieces flat . It 's interesting that Rob Schneider 's comedies are getting progressively worse as they are released . On the surface The Hot Chick Full Review | Original Score : 3/5 While the result is neither poetry nor politics , it does rather gleefully turn a few dumbass guy's-guy movie comedy conventions on their heads . The verdict : Two bodies and hardly a laugh between them . Wallows in gender stereotypes , solidifying the impression that Schneider ca n't compete with the likes of Sandler and fellow SNL alumnus Mike Myers . I will say this for the film -- it 's in color . And , it was mostly in focus . And I really ca n't say anymore for it beyond that . Has a few funny moments , but pretty lame overall . 	The Hot Chick 's one-note concept gets stretched thin , and a lot of the jokes fall flat .
far from the madding crowd 2014 Thomas Vinterberg 's sturdy new film adaptation brings out some of the darker shades , literally and figuratively , in Hardy 's proto-feminist tale . Beautifully rendered but the subject that drives the story - English class distinction - is subsumed by the three suitors ' pursuit of the independent heroine . Bathsheba should be more than a dress-up doll , and the rest more than a potboiler . Lost in the gloss is Hardy 's weirdness , and with it half his greatness . The new movie version of Far From the Madding Crowd ca n't compete with its predecessor on any of those fronts , but it does have a trump card , and her name is Carey Mulligan . For all the bucolic beauty and ravishing romance , we 're reminded that violence is never far from the surface - and Vinterberg captures the brewing tragedy magnificently . Casting Mulligan in this role might seem like a curious choice . But her character combines the smarts , spunk and a sly sexuality that is difficult to ignore . And she is eminently likeable . A thoroughly modern film anyone can relate to - it 's like a `` what a woman wants '' discussion set in Victorian times . It 's also an instant classic . Ridiculously romantic in all the best ways , and more modern , more progressive , and even just plain more grownup that half the movies thrown at us today . It 's beautifully old and atmospheric without feeling dated . In trying to create a feminist icon out of a decidedly Victorian character ( just look at her name ) , the movie loses sight of the actual story it came to tell . 	Far from the Madding Crowd invites tough comparisons to Thomas Hardy 's classic novel -- and its previous adaptation -- but stands on its own thanks to strong direction and a talented cast .
come early morning With an honest and starkly minimalist approach , Adams paints a vivid , often painful portrait of a woman who has nothing to look forward to except the next one-night stand . If and when Come Early Morning ever resurfaces on DVD , order it immediately-and while you 're at it , order Chasing Amy too , if you have n't already seen it , and enjoy a dandy double feature with two country girls of enormous talent . Come Early Morning is anchored by a deep affection for its very anti-urban locale and an authentic attempt to capture the people populating the milieu . Ashley Judd gives a real performance in Come Early Morning , but the film is simply not good enough for her talent . In intent , this familiar rural tale of redemption of an alcoholic sexually-loose woman brings to mind Robert Duvall 's role Tender Mercies and Nunez 's Ruby in Paradise , also starring Ashley Judd . Adams shows a sure-footedness about emotional transformation , both in her writing and directing , and has a real regard for the place -- her home state of Arkansas -- where her movie happens . ... nothing less than a minor key wonder of a film , a character study of novelistic complexity with a sure sense of place and purpose that seems akin to movies made before Hollywood discovered its corporate destiny . This is a quietly powerful film about small-town Southern living that avoids all the usual clichs and makes us feel as if we 're dropping in on real lives in mid-stream . The writing and directing by Joey Lauren Adams express an admirable naturalness and eschews rose-tinted solutions . What Come Early Morning does is create an utterly convincing central character , and surround her with a milieu and backstory that is sincere and convincing . 	A quiet but moving film anchored by the unexpected depth of Ashley Judd 's performance .
happy feet two More feet , more songs , more music , more characters ... more everything , but less of story than the original . The heart of the film is scattered , but it fails to connect as satisfactorily as it did before Duplicates many of the strengths of the original , without surpassing or even matching its originality and inspiration The film reminds viewers young and old that to make a positive change , sometimes the little guy at the bottom of the food chain needs to stomp his feet . The film might be too chaotic for some audiences , but for those willing to sit back and enjoy the rapid-fire ride , Happy Feet Two will bring a smile to your face . Like me , you probably like a handful of the pop songs , but would describe the experience of seeing them performed by multi-million-dollar , anthropomorphized animals as not being too far off from watching a graphic training film on venereal disease . It ca n't match the original , but it 's not the first sequel to fail on that front , and it still offers plenty of fun and enjoyment in compensation . It has its moments and is certainly not a bad film , but it fails to entertain in quite the same way . Technically accomplished and otherwise uninspired sequel to the 2006 CGI hit about a dancing penguin in Antarctica . This one is as stupid as it looks , which is saying something . ... the magic of the first often fades with part two 's overly long and slightly redundant tale of singing and dancing penguins 	The animation is as eye-popping as ever , but Happy Feet Two 's narrative is too noisily incoherent to recapture the Oscar-winning charm of its predecessor .
year of living dangerously A curiously languid affair , rather than the breathless Costa-Gavras-style thriller which was the least one might have expected from this kind of material . With director Peter Weir applying the lighter fluid , Mel Gibson and Sigourney Weaver ignite with a chemistry that goes ... into the realm of star quality The rest of the film has n't aged nearly as well as Hunt 's fun performance ... Combining political intrigue , steamy romance , and engaging characters , Peter Weir 's well-crafted , highly enjoyable adventure is one of the few successful efforts to make a Casablanca-like movie for modern audiences . Outstanding political thriller -- and plenty hot , to boot A rousing and sharp look at a land that 's far from our own in more ways than one . Weir 's movies are open-ended , stylish dramas that engage our senses , psyche , and wonder . A young Mel Gibson anchors a fascinating look at the life of a journalist looking for the great war-era news story . Biting , tense Weir film -- factually based Weir and his crew expertly recreate the squalor , poverty , noise , heat and emotion of the pressure cooker that was Indonesia in 1965 . 	Both a smart , suspenseful tale of intrigue and a sweeping romance , The Year of Living Dangerously features excellent performances from Mel Gibson and Sigourney Weaver as a pair of journalists covering political unrest in Indonesia .
meet the robinsons ... a movie with its heart in the right place and its computers heading off in all different directions . It 's very expensive to take your whole family to the movies these days and this is one movie that you will not feel as if you 've wasted your money . Offers impressive visuals , engaging action scenes and funny moments . The computer animation is fine , and some of the creatures -- an R2D2-type robot , a purple octopus who doubles as the Robinsons ' butler , and a bowler hat that has silvery spider legs and designs on taking over the world -- will tweak kids ' imaginations . Regardless of what you think of the story and characters in Robinsons , the film should be seen just for the technological advancement it represents . Typical Disney claptrap . What might the man who brought us Fantasia and Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs make of the backwards-crawling tedium of movies like this ? A film of terribly alienating character design ( so many pinchy faces and tiny eyes ! ) blended with very plastic-y backgrounds . A baby being left on the doorstep of an orphanage has been done many times , yet Meet the Robinsons makes it feel new again , and not just because of the fantastic 3-D technology . Here , the effects spring organically from the story . You feel like you 're immersed in a complete universe , the way the ground slopes toward you or objects seem to come from behind you and enter the screen . 	Meet the Robinsons is a visually impressive children 's animated film marked by a story of considerable depth .
iron man 3 Iron Man 3 packs all the clever one-liners and tons of fun we expect , while contrasting that fun with an authentic sense of menace . The real enjoyment here comes when Shane Black 's sensibilities take over during the middle hour . Shorter and less self-regarding than most Marvel movies , Iron Man 3 is every bit as zippy as we might expect from the creator of Lethal Weapon and Kiss Kiss Bang Bang . There 's so much dumb stuff in `` Iron Man 3 '' that I expected the credits to say , `` Written and directed by Thor . '' This [ Tony ] Stark is an anonymous shadow of his former self-promoting self . `` Iron Man 3 '' is rollicking , frenetic and whimsical , mostly because Downey , Jr. is given many comic lines to recite . Downey is at his superhero genius best here , rattling off dialogue both clever and boilerplate with non-repetitive aplomb . Iron Man 3 is , perhaps by default , the best comic book superhero `` threequel '' yet . Feels like a singular , fully realised entity , rather than a glorified teaser trailer for another crossover feature , and has some genuinely inspired and satisfying surprises amidst its familiar trappings . It 's only May - or will be by the time you see it - but cinema Santa came early . Joy to the nerds - this movie is as good as its photoshopped posters were amateurish . 	With the help of its charismatic lead , some impressive action sequences , and even a few surprises , Iron Man 3 is a witty , entertaining adventure and a strong addition to the Marvel canon .
manderlay Manderlay comes off as little more than a droning , embittered curiosity . The crucial difference between Manderlay and the almost unbearable Dogville is not that his politics have changed , but that his sense of mercy for the audience has been awakened . Von Trier , there 's no doubt about it , has become a taxidermist of America 's sins , but the way he puts those sins on display only to thumb his nose at them marks him as a new style of prankster-hypocrite . Von Trier 's obvious bigotry towards the U.S. and the significantly weaker cast makes his revolutionary ideas a harder sell the second time around . There are any number of ways to read Manderlay ... Whether we like it or not , Von Trier 's arguments have a universal social insight that would be detrimental to ignore . There 's always value in seeing something from another 's perspective . Not necessarily as pertinent as it attempts to be . Von Trier 's hand is n't as sure in Manderlay as it was in Dogville . His film exasperates and illuminates in equal measure . But no film addict will want to miss his cinematic brilliance . Controversy comes as naturally to Danish director Lars von Trier as breathing , and he 'll use any means to achieve his goal . Even the basic look of the film -- it was filmed on a stage with every shot set against a bleak , dark backdrop -- underscores the filmmaker 's position as master manipulator , in a laboratory , looking down at his mice running through his maze . 	Manderlay may work better as a political statement than as a film , making its points at the expense of telling a compelling story .
1158179-devil and daniel johnston Feuerzeig paints a loving portrait of the up-and-down life of the troubled 45-year-old -- sort of a poor man 's Brian Wilson . An inspired piece of work by someone who knows and admires Mr. Johnston but does n't cover up the warts . It 's also the rare documentary possessed with an artistry that transcends its subject . Regardless of whether you like Daniel Johnston 's music or , indeed , whether you can even tolerate it , Johnston is an undeniably riveting documentary subject If Johnston is Joe Buck , Feuerzeig is his rambling , audacious Enrico Rizzo . Daniel Johnson 's 'musical genius ' is overblown . His only similarity to Brian Wilson is his mental illness , which is the true focus of this fascinating documentary . Feuerzeig 's kaleidoscopic film is the perfect frame for Daniel Johnston 's odd world . [ Johnston 's ] story opens a window on the nature of art and the power of myth . Director Jeff Feuerzeig , extensively utilizing home movies , chronicles the eerie and oddly inspiring story of Johnston 's ongoing battles to survive -- both as artist and human being . While the movie is interesting as a curiosity , it ultimately reflects on the people who erroneously believe in the heightened quality of Johnston 's overrated music . This stunningly powerful tale gets you in its grip and does n't let go . 	Whether you think this mentally ill cult musician is worthy of being called a `` genius , '' this document of his life is crafted with sincere respect and is fascinating to watch .
le passe A morally complex mystery , without a detective to stand outside the drama and identify the one truly guilty party . All of the acting is first-rate , with Bejo winning the best actress award at the 2013 Cannes Film Festival , where The Past made its world premiere . But Mosaffa 's role as Ahmad proves to be the biggest revelation . `` The Past '' is long and occasionally feels slow - as real life sometimes does - but never false . The plot is the impurest of soap opera , but [ director Asghar ] Farhadi 's artistry and resonant humanism transcend melodrama and cultural barriers . Tahar Rahim and Brnice Bejo are on top form in this immaculate study of marital disharmony . ... at its best when there 's less going on . While a lot of what Farhadi holds up his sleeve is rooted in soap opera , it plays very much like a horror picture , as ghosts from the recent and distant past continue to reveal themselves in shocking fashion . The authenticity of the dialogue and the performances gives the material a universal resonance without resorting to cheap sentimentality or happy endings . If you can possibly imagine an extremely superior episode of EastEnders , lasting more than two hours and in French , then you will have some idea of what The Past is like . Farhadi loosens the valve on a drip-feed of revelations , each one changing any assumptions prompted by the last . 	Beautifully written , sensitively directed , and powerfully acted , The Past serves as another compelling testament to Asghar Farhadi 's gift for finely layered drama .
1198124-shutter island Great director , lousy material . Scorsese shoots a creepy film , but the twist ending was n't that big a surprise to me . The story does n't cut it . Paul Chambers , CNN . `` Shutter Island '' is n't a perfect piece of work , but there are sequences in it that soar and burn . Scorsese gets stylish , witty performances from his stellar bunch . No one overacts , but they slide as close to it as they can , and the result is vivid , memorable and just plain fun to watch . It 's just not exciting . By the time this twisty mystery unfolds its ideas of how the past haunts people , how guilt consumes and how memories shape our mind 's machinery , the result is elegant , creepy , fantastic cinema . Things that go bump in the mind are so much scarier than things that go bump in the night . The cinematic equivalent of a bait and switch scam . Scorsese drops the wiseguys and goodfellas for a creep-filled island . This quasi-horror film has the great director 's usual craftsmanship and a stellar cast , but ultimately it 's an infuriating trick that makes its most provocative ideas disappear . Scorsese still knows how to put on one hell of a show . 	It may not rank with Scorsese 's best work , but Shutter Island 's gleefully unapologetic genre thrills represent the director at his most unrestrained .
hunt for red october The talented supporting cast gives a pleasing sheen to the material , while John McTiernan 's no-frills direction ensures that the tension rarely slips below pressure-cooker level . A leviathan bore , big , clunky and ponderously overplotted . A superbly crafted cold war thriller , with excellent performances , cinematography and tension . Politics aside , however , The Hunt for Red October is a thrilling edge-of-your-seat trifle that has admirably withstood the test of time . A skillful , efficient film . McTiernan does a great job with this submarine thriller . Also features a stellar ensemble of character actors . The big question hanging over the much-anticipated film version of novelist Tom Clancy 's best-seller The Hunt for Red October is how , in the current world climate , this cold war thriller will stand up to the warm glow of glasnost . The answer is : just fine . The Hunt for Red October is a terrific adventure yarn . It is a thriller in some sequences , action in others , but it depends on personal taste , how many thrills you believe a movie should have in order to be considered a thriller Regressive old-fashioned thriller of a sort that mostly died out 20 years earlier . 	Perfectly cast and packed with suspense , The Hunt for Red October is an old-fashioned submarine thriller with plenty of firepower to spare .
kickin it old school I like Kennedy but he does n't make it easy for me Kennedy 's lowbrow comedy best for '80s veterans . As appealing as acid-washed jeans . The writers make sure to fill their script with only the most obvious jokes and cultural references so that their star 's particular comedic talents will shine brightest and he can work his magic without the risk of causing any audience members to think . It 's horrific to watch Kennedy and his cast not even care about what they 're putting out into the world . People , we 're getting closer to Ow ! My Balls ! every day . Kennedy believes he is one of those performers whose every move is funny , who can keep an audience in stitches simply by falling down or looking confused . He is mistaken . The climax set at the dancing competition drags on so long one wonders if the film was n't originally meant to be a miniseries event . You might think that after Kennedy proved capable of emptying every theater in the civilized world with his last two vehicles someone would have said , 'Enough ! ' But no . The film itself seems lost in a time warp -- even its attitude toward the '80s is out of date considering the ongoing revival in music and fashion from that era . Kennedy seems to think that simply showing up in Hammer pants is enough to make the movie work . 	Kickin ' It Old Skool is one big unfunny pop culture reference that does n't feature many laughs .
notebook To fight it is foolish . It 's much easier and far more rewarding just to give in and let Cassavetes and his cast play you like a harp . If trailers to Cassavetes ' unashamed tearjerker seem interminable , try sitting through the contrived sentimental sap of the two-hour-plus film . This is an ideal date movie with some touching romantic stuff going down . Sentimental hogwash , but it 's hogwash with an insidious power . What a glorious weepie The Notebook might have been if they 'd just found a way to get rid of the damned notebook . The film does absolutely nothing new , brave or surprising , but it treads its familiar ground with a comfortable , well-practiced gait . Despite the pleasant surprise that it is n't completely rancid , The Notebook proves ultimately and unfortunately completely forgettable . It 's an interesting and emotional movie , but a simple one Cue the sensitive piano . Make the settings picturesque . Add a corny narration , and let the love boat sail . ... one gets the sense that director Nick Cassevetes and writer Jan Sardi would spray the audience with teargas if they could . 	It 's hard not to admire its unabashed sentimentality , but The Notebook is too clumsily manipulative to rise above its melodramatic clichs .
the expendables The Expendables is like dating a jock - no sparkling conversation or subtlety but great to have around when you need to blow sh-t up or kick some ass . I 'd say that I already can smell the sequel , but I believe that odor is coming from this film . Rather than reviving the actors ' 80s heyday , The Expendables only demonstrates how much action films have changed in recent years . Despite some surprisingly decent performances , it just is n't as fun as it should be . But Stallone does prove there 's still some room left in the action genre for these titans , so let 's why not ? Let 's have another round . Feels less like high-concept filmmaking and more like wishful thinking . Watching The Expendables is like watching professional wrestling but with guns , knives and a whole lot of death . Some kind of meatheaded masterpiece , it 's cinematic junk food of the highest order . An amazing combination of totally campy and totally crappy with a plot and style straight out of 1984 , which is funny to see , especially the chemistry between the guys . Stallone , with his highly unusual current face , is so busy making googly eyes at Statham and nursing a man-crush that he forgets that the goal of this movie is MORE KILLING . In lieu of a flurry of left hooks and roundhouse kicks , we stay safely in Stallone 's comfort zone of shoot 'em ups and s -- - getting blown up . 	It makes good on the old-school action it promises , but given all the talent on display , The Expendables should hit harder .
the hunt 2013 Mikkelsen , one of his country 's finest actors , in collaboration with Thomas Vinterberg , one of its finest directors , delivers what may be his strongest performance yet . Unsettling , forthright and thought-provoking , The Hunt is also brilliantly titled . Known for his often icy and violent characters , Mikkelsen impresses here as a warm-hearted man who finds himself caught up in a situation way beyond his control . The Hunt is a terrifying film , anchored by Mikkelsen 's poignantly poised turn and saturated with uncomfortable truths about society , childhood and our susceptibility to mass hysteria . A misogynistic little soap opera , it 's beautifully acted , yes , but silly to the bone . A strong , moving portrait of a man shunned by the only society he knows for reasons he ca n't understand , marked by a stunning lead performance from [ Mads ] Mikkelsen . A nursery school student , angry at her teacher , says something stupid which leads to a witch hunt in a small Danish town . Tension builds inexorably in this intense drama about a teacher accused of sexual misconduct . Immensely powerful in its invocation of the true meaning of Christian charity and its symbolism . Topical , gripping and in the end , cryptic . Thomas Vinterberg 's The Hunt conveys the sinister swirl of persecution more vividly than any film I can remember . 	Anchored by Mads Mikkelsen 's sympathetic performance , The Hunt asks difficult questions with the courage to pursue answers head on .
witches of eastwick Superbly played horror-comedy ; a delight at the end of the day , it 's just too obvious . Not horrible , but overrated . Really stylish , undervalued comedy fantasy . Classic Nicholson performance with some great sexual metaphors . ... at its best whenever Nicholson or Cartwright are on the screen . Jack Nicholson is at his mischievous best in this wildly entertaining battle of the sexes . Something Wicked this way comes ! Director George Miller obscures Updike 's original version with senseless special effects . 	A wickedly funny tale of three witches and their duel with the Devil , fuelled by some delicious fantasy and arch comedic performances .
shattered glass Right from the start , Hayden Christensen is a revelation . Shattered Glass certainly stirred something up that needed cooking , but it never made it tasty enough to swallow whole . An eye-opening and gripping thriller that poses some very important questions . A satisfying , dramatically absorbing account . The portrait of Glass is particularly sharp . While Sean Penn grabs the headlines for his emotive bluster in Mystic River , Peter Sarsgaard gives a brilliantly measured performance as editor Chuck Lane . Ranks beside 'All the President 's Men ' as one of the great movies about journalism . The events unfold with a riveting dread inevitability . A sober , wry and often riveting account of an infamous moment in journalism . Easily one of the most original and shrewdly crafted movies this year , amidst a glut of hollow , show-off cinematic pageantry . 	A compelling look at Stephen Glass ' fall from grace .
your sisters sister An actor 's movie , offering the small-scale pleasures of a good story well-told . The location of Your Sister 's Sister is lovely , and the performances are top-notch , captured by Shelton in the same casually honest way that made Humpday such a delight . It 's an oddly charming and entertaining film that works because it 's willing to embrace the less savory side of its characters . Shelton and her cast are so skillful that before long it seems we are not moviegoers watching a screen but flies on a wall witnessing real encounters and the beauty of the Pacific Northwest . The film 's conceits may be a bit too contrived and conventional , but nothing about these characters ' interactions are forced . Your Sister 's Sister is a welcome guest . For a film that relies on conversation and connection , it 's awfully plot-heavy , full of `` Aha ! '' dramatic revelations that feel more suited to a soap opera than an indie dramedy . Much makes the viewer feel they 're a fly on the wall , albeit a fly who has difficulty holding the camera steady or staying in focus . The acting in Your Sister 's Sister is also top-notch and reason enough to see it , especially if you 're a fan of the lovely Emily Blunt . All three performers add both tone and , when required , a fierce volume to their interplay . Lynn Shelton 's fourth feature after her well-received `` Humpday '' demands more patience than understanding . 	Superbly acted and satisfyingly engaging , Your Sister 's Sister subverts rom-com conventions with sensitive direction , an unconventional screenplay , and a big heart .
gone with the wind Superb acting talent was followed by superb production values . It 's remarkable that after spending almost eight hours of my existence in front of this film , I can remember only two points vividly . Gone With The Wind is among my favorite movies of all time , and it would be useless to go on and on about how great I think it is . It 's a classic because it 's not dated at all ; it has effortlessly stood the test of time . This is a film that never fights shy of clichs . Rather , it collects them all up in one glorious heap so you can cherry-pick those that appeal . Everything about it is big . The most beloved , enduring and popular film of all time is Gone With The Wind ( 1939 ) - its script by Sidney Howard was derived from Margaret Mitchell 's The golden standard for classic Hollywood bombast , this one . If ever the phrase , `` They do n't make 'em like they used to '' could fit a film , this is it . All of the drama of GWTW is successfully combined with dazzling production values . 	Filmed and presented on a scale not seen in modern productions , Gone with the Wind is , if not the definitive Hollywood film , then certainly near the top of the list .
metropolis 2002 With elements cribbed from Lang 's Metropolis , Welles ' Kane , and Eisenstein 's Potemkin , the true wonder of Rintar 's Metropolis is the number of lasting images all its own . A near perfect fusion of computer and cel animation . Unfortunately , as this movie is a joy in visuals , it 's a let-down plot-wise . Wow . Japanese animation reaches new heights ( if that 's possible considering what we 've already seen ) with this superb adaptation of Osamu Tezuka 's 1949 manga ( comic book ) . While some of the subplots are very sketchy and the motivations of some of the characters are not clear , it is a journey worth taking because of the wondrous imagery . Brings together some of the biggest names in Japanese anime , with impressive results . One of the most important and exhilarating forms of animated filmmaking since old Walt doodled Steamboat Willie . A hallucinatory tour de force of color , perspective and scale , virtually encapsulates the history of Japanese animation . One of the most important animated films ever made . Belleza , magia , poder , amor , misterio , y gran gran msica y visuales ... qu ms se puede pedir ? ... 	A remarkable technical achievement , Metropolis ' eye-popping visuals more than compensate for its relatively routine story .
michael clayton Broad in its characterizations and message but subdued in presenting them through a complex plot . If Michael Clayton 's particular mix of law and commerce gets a little murky , that murkiness also gives the film a shadowy aura . Smart and thoroughly entertaining . A brilliant debut by Gilroy , it takes its time to grab you but [ then ] keeps you riveted to the screen . No one should be surprised if it brings [ Clooney ] back to the Oscars . Michael Clayton , The Re-Release : Suits in deadly combat may not sound like the ideal setup for an action thriller , especially if the labels are of the pricey designer variety . But hey , this is George Clooney , who is n't half bad no matter what he 's wearing George Clooney does something unusual in Michael Clayton . He looks uncomfortable . A straight-ahead suspense melodrama , complete with villain and a climax with satisfyingly clean lines . But Gilroy constantly elevates the material with surprise gifts . [ Blu-Ray review ] An engrossing intellectual thriller with a shrewd grasp of crowd-pleasing storytelling ... the kind of Hollywood movie we could use a lot more of . Clooney is as good as he has ever been . The film 's denouement is without question one of the best exercises in sustained and controlled excitement I 've seen in a movie in a long while . 	Michael Clayton is one of the most sharply scripted films of 2007 , with an engrossing premise and faultless acting . Director Tony Gilroy succeeds not only in capturing the audience 's attention , but holding it until the credits roll .
alien saga 2003 You know how sometimes you revisit a movie you loved and realize it was n't as good as you remember ? This is n't one of those times . It 's worth seeing Alien , which established Scott as an A-list director , in a theater because his brilliant and often expansive visuals have always worked better on a big screen than on video . This edition -- clean and tight as Scott would have it -- presents a strong case for Alien as both the greatest horror film and the greatest science-fiction film ever made . Turns out not to be one of those movies that improves in the memory , but actually is better than you remember , mostly because it puts its multitude of imitators to shame . Read the review on the 2003 Director 's Cut ... one of the few films that can be predicted perfectly , but it ? s so well crafted ? and so damn exciting ? that we just don ? t care . Today 's directors could learn from 'Alien ' -- ratchet up tensions : do n't start with a bang . The first is still the best . 'A chance to see Ridley Scott 's ruthlessly efficient shocker back where it belongs , on the big screen . ' It 's still an enjoyable experience revisiting the Nostromo and getting reacquainted with its seven crew members . 	Director Ridley Scott re-edits his 1979 sci-fi classic to produce an elegantly re-mastered film that is as terrifying and effective as ever .
fill the void Take it on its own terms , as a compelling emotional drama about an impossible situation . Burshtein creates a one-of-a-kind portrait that nonetheless transcends its setting , and even its worldview ; the dynamics are global . A fascinating , and somewhat frustrating peek into the lives of Israel 's ultra-Orthodox Jews , their mating rituals and whatnot . a subtle , elegant movie that brings us into the structured world of Tel Aviv 's ultra-Orthodox Hasidic community to show how one young woman navigates the demands of her religion and her family 's expectations without losing herself in the process . I left Fill the Void feeling privileged , however briefly , to have been brought into this world . Using the advantage of personal familiarity with an insular religious community of Haredi Jews in Tel Aviv , Rama Burshtein has created a small jewel of a narrative . An intelligent and moving examination of the possibilities of personal freedom within the strict confines of religion and tradition . The film is undeniably a celebration of community , but on Shira , one gets the disturbing whiff of Stockholm Syndrome . A terrifically layered film that really leaves you thinking and wanting to talk about what you 've just watched afterwards `` Fill the Void , '' a compelling and skillfully made domestic drama , is a rarity , a film that 's both set within , and emerges from , a devoutly religious world . 	Graceful , complex , and beautifully layered , Fill the Void offers a sympathetic portrait of an insulated culture by exploring universal themes .
10009624-promotion Saying The Promotion 's tone is all wrong would imply that it had a tone to begin with . Screenwriter Steve Conrad 's ( The Pursuit of Happyness ) directorial debut is too strait-laced for the Knocked Up set and too offensive for the Will Smith crowd . The Promotion works as a comedy because , in the depths of our dark hearts , we enjoy seeing the woes that beset our comic antagonists . Not that there are n't some great laughs , but this is far from the laugh-a-minute yuck-fest some might expect . As bad as a severe case of the Mondays . The Promotion is n't very original but it is , more often than not , funny . Fails as a comedy because it 's less funny and interesting than it would be to watch stars Seann William Scott and John C. Reilly sitting in lawn chairs and talking for 90 minutes . Easily one of the freshest , funniest comedies of the year . A smart , understated comedy about two assistant supermarket managers making a bid for the one big promotion they both desperately need . Is n't as broad as its premise might suggest . 	With a workplace-related theme worthy of satire , The Promotion features some sharp witticisms but ultimately disappoints .
disgrace Surprisingly successful adaptation . Newcomer Jessica Haines is transparent and heartbreaking as the prof 's unorthodox daughter , a victim of violence as the old ways crumble . Near-flawless casting through the film ensures it will be recalled as one of the year 's outstanding dramas from Australia , or anywhere . Engaging , powerful and absorbing drama that does n't offer any easy answers but exerts a tight grip , thanks to a terrific performance by John Malkovich . The film struggles in its attempt to balance the thought-provoking overtones with the human drama at its core . This is tragic inevitability at one mile per hour , extending into a slow , sunbaked danse macabre the drama 's heartbreak and the guilt , anguish and wrath . The person snoring next to me is a perfect example of how colossally insignificant this fatiguing and strenuous flick is with its implausibility , unrecognizable characters and tattered plot line . It 's hard to believe this film is Jessica Haines 's first screen role . As Lucy , the South African actress proves herself more than equal to Malkovich . The film is a rich , textured and emotionally engaging experience that challenges our ethical and moral views about South Africa Individual or societal in thrust , 'Disgrace ' is hampered by a lack of resolution and the impenetrability of motivations . 	Featuring outstanding performances from John Malkovich and newcomer Jessica Haines , Disgrace is a disturbing , powerful drama .
garden state It 's a hilarious and heartfelt ode to twentysomething angst . It 's good to see Natalie Portman acting again . the heart and soul of Garden State is Zach Braff . . . I can guarantee my a** will be in the seat for whatever project he helms next Ultimately , The Graduate could only offer that the young would shut out the old and start over . Garden State is about the next season , about getting off the bus . It 's the little moments that make Zach Braff 's directorial debut a mesmerizing and emotional viewing . Mr. Braff , Ms. Portman , Mr. Sarsgaard and Mr. Holm never strike a false note as a remarkably coherent acting ensemble , and it is good to see Ron Leibman again in the small role of Doctor Cohen . Zach Braff 's appeal ... is his ability to underplay the comedy , to appear befuddled and intimidated as madness surrounds him . Illuminates a young man 's overdue coming of age with unexpected depth and grace . It 's a forgettable film featuring a throw-away story with unmemorable characters and unremarkable performances . A spunky romantic comedy about an enthusiastic young woman who transforms her lover with the good medicine of her personality . 	Delivering a quirky spin on familiar twentysomething tropes -- with a cannily-placed soundtrack -- Garden State has enough charm to mark a winning debut for first-time director Zach Braff .
death race 2000 Roger Corman is the master of doing a lot with a little , and Death Race 2000 is but one shining example of the filmmaker 's know-how . A movie that has a little bit of everything , and it 's easily the best version of itself that could possibly be put together . ... a mindlessly entertaining , thoroughly campy piece of work ... In the end , it reveals itself to have nothing to say beyond the superficial about government or rebellion . And in the absence of such a statement , it becomes what it seems to have mocked -- a spectacle glorifying the car is an instrument of violence . Overall the movie is n't as synchromeshed as it might be ; the rivalry between champions Carradine and Stallone is n't very interesting , and some of the gags are n't sick or funny enough . But it 's a great audience film . Fun , fun , fun ! A goofy piece of over-the-top mayhem with half a brain . It has a comic strip premise which is neverthless wholly credible in a sick sort of way . Corman did n't direct the drive-in hit Death Race 2000 , but it bears his imprint of economic utilitarianism . Script , from an Ib Melchior story , makes its satirical points economically , and director Paul Bartel keeps the film moving quickly . 	Death Race 2000 is a fun , campy classic , drawing genuine thrills from its mindless ultra-violence .
sicko As both harangue and movie tragicomedy , Sicko is socko . Here 's an issue that transcends politics and speaks to basic human need and collective responsibility ; perhaps we need Moore 's cudgel to make the case bluntly . This is a movie , not a position paper , and Moore aims to entertain as he informs . The movie plays like an expose that would make Edward R. Murrow proud . And for that reason , 'Sicko ' may be the most significant documentary to come along since HMOs were conceived under Richard Nixon . Laughs are thin on the ground , but this is a must-see by a film-maker at the height of his powers . Better make sure you can afford cardiac care before you see `` Sicko . '' Because these real-life stories could rend your heart . Sicko may not be Moore 's best documentary to date , but it 's most certainly his most important and entertaining one yet . A real breakthrough for Moore . Combines his customary wit with a real respect for his characters . A great piece of populist outrage and a dangerously good comedy about a looming American tragedy , as Moore details the lock-hold on American health care by drug and insurance companies , and the eagerness of politicians to be bought into submission by them Michael Moore 's best film to date . Entertaining , moving , funny , hard-hitting , right-on . It wo n't silence his critics , but it will give them something to think about . 	Driven by Michael Moore 's sincere humanism , Sicko is a devastating , convincing , and very entertaining documentary about the state of America 's health care .
white ribbon This film is a total drag to watch . It is slow . It is dark . It is depressing , and it seems as though it is never going to end . It is torture to sit through this film . It runs 144 minutes and seems twice that long . Just another film by Michael Haneke , designed to provoke and infuriate , posing hard questions and offering no easy answers . The White Ribbon is Michael Haneke 's masterpiece . It is not a movie about abstract concepts or a director 's power over his characters - well , at least it 's not just about those things . A typically engrossing mystery -- or should that be anti-mystery ? -- from Haneke . A pointless , bloodless cinematic construct obsessed with man 's capacity for cruelty ... the equivalent of watching someone pull the wings off flies . At his best , as he is with White Ribbon , Haneke 's fusion of art and ideas is unsurpassed . It 's clear that this portrait of a sick society is meant to explain , at least partially , the horrendous war that breaks out at the very end of the film , and the fascism that quickly followed in its wake . Shot with dry discipline in striking black and white , the deliberately paced , consistently unnerving film invites viewers into every corner of its town , from its stately manor to its humblest abode , finding in each an air of unease and discontentment . A meticulously constructed , precisely modulated tapestry of malice and intrigue in a rural village in pre-World War I northern Germany . The narrator-teacher 's voice and shy personality lull and convince , and approximation becomes acceptable reality . 	The White Ribbon effectively utilizes tension and a bleak atmosphere to deliver a thought-provoking examination of nascent fascism .
high crimes Sinks so low in a poorly played game of absurd plot twists , idiotic court maneuvers and stupid characters that even Freeman ca n't save it . With lesser talents , High Crimes would be entertaining , but forgettable . With Freeman and Judd , I 'll at least remember their characters . Loaded with false alarms , shocks , and a few twists , the story wends its way enjoyably toward resolution , assisted by a nicely constructed set of revelations . Judd 's characters ought to pick up the durable best seller Smart Women , Foolish Choices for advice . Consider the film a celluloid litmus test for the intellectual and emotional pedigree of your date and a giant step backward for a director I admire . There ought to be a law against what they do to Morgan Freeman in High Crimes . The movie does n't leave a person looking at his watch every few minutes . But the action is too far-fetched and the ending , in particular , is unconvincing . If only all buddy pictures were this good . 'High Crimes ' is criminal , criminal filmmaking . It 's bad , and not in that '80s good way , just not good . While High Crimes is riveting at times , it relies mostly on adrenaline , not intelligence , to keep us glued to our seats . 	Ashley Judd and Morgan Freeman make this predictable affair watchable .
mud 2012 Beautifully acted , intellectually engaging , and dramatically satisfying , Mud deserves to rocket to the top of your must-see list . Often the movies absorb these ideas in plots that are eager to retread to action and violence , but Nichols finds a resonating and sharp tone here that understates those desires . There 's an argument to be made that there 's a calculated degree of clich to this sweet , Southern-fried fairytale , that Nichols is paying tribute here to his more mainstream inspirations . An evocative drama set at the precipice of adulthood . Mud is the kind of small scale , character driven drama one rarely sees out of the States any more , and cements Nichols as one of his country 's most significant independent auteurs . This moody , broody character-driven crime story is another fine step in the career redemption of Matthew McConaughey . Against a lush Mississippi River backdrop , a boy 's coming-of-age is spurred by a friendship with an outlaw . Mud has a rare big-screen beauty , and its old-fashioned storytelling recalls A River Runs Through It , Night of the Hunter , and Stand By Me . A spare , well-told story that shows teen characters learning necessary lessons in ways that manage to be both universal and dramatic . With `` Mud , '' Jeff Nichols announces his intention to do it all . He just may yet . 	Bolstered by a strong performance from Matthew McConaughey in the title role , Mud offers an engaging Southern drama that manages to stay sweet and heartwarming without being sappy .
no country for old men It 's their best work in a while and it 's probably going to end up being the year 's best movie . Long the merry pranksters of the cinema , the Coens have given irony a vacation . Filmmakers Joel and Ethan Coen build and sustain tension so masterfully throughout this adaptation of Cormac McCarthy 's novel that even trouble that 's been telegraphed still shocks when it arrives . How much does chance play in our clashes with evil ? If that 's too philosophical for you , then , pardner , you 'd best turn to entertainment other than `` No Country for Old Men , '' arguably the best yet from the Coen brothers . Adult , sophisticated , and often amb A brilliant example of how plot devices as simple as murder and money can be used to explore larger sweeping themes of mortality , morality and more -- while still delivering rousing , intelligent pure entertainment . [ It ] just might be the Coen brothers ' singular mythic masterwork . I would have preferred a bit more resolution , but it 's hard to fault the filmmakers for sticking to their filmic style You may see films you like better in 2007 , but you 're unlikely to see one more memorable . Like The Crying Game , Pulp Fiction and other films that shift paradigms in mid-stream , there 's more happening than meets the eye ... .Stark and spare , it 's often a gasp-inducing , armrest-clutching experience . This stark and grimly violent tale of humankind 's insignificance in the presence of a force it is helpless to control or predict is a morality tale of existential proportions -- and with contemporary implications . 	Bolstered by powerful lead performances from Javier Bardem , Josh Brolin , and Tommy Lee Jones , No Country for Old Men finds the Coen brothers spinning cinematic gold out of Cormac McCarthy 's grim , darkly funny novel .
dallas buyers club 2013 Dallas Buyers Club is predictably heart-warming , often slipping into forced sappiness . Thankfully , McConaughey and Leto are willing to labor to earn the audience 's tears honestly . Films can be lifted by their performances , just as careers can be resurrected by the embrace of difficult choices . Though grounded by a resonant real-life story of struggle and survival , Dallas Buyers Club offers an example of both . This is n't exactly the story of Ron Woodroof , nor is it the story about the ghastly politics involved in the AIDS epidemic of the 1980s . Still , 'Dallas Buyers Club ' rings true as a glimpse back at a time when desperate people took desperate measures . This is the performance of McConaughey 's newly resurgent career . Unlike Christian Bale 's freak-show emaciation for 2004 's 'The Machinist , ' McConaughey 's astonishing weight loss for his portrayal of AIDS activist Ron Woodruff does n't overshadow the movie . It reinforces the authenticity of this fine film . For a movie about dying of AIDS , Dallas Buyers Club is really fun . Woodroof is beating the system so the process of obtaining and sharing drugs while skirting around federal regulations is engaging . Like McConaughey 's Woodruff , it is honest and hard-edged and all the more powerful and absorbing for it , yet without sacrificing humour and heart ... This is all well-intentioned , but it 's still obnoxious hokum , an important story so distilled and stripped of its essence that by the end , it 's not about AIDS and the fight for new drugs at all . Quebec director John-Marc Valle ( The Young Victoria , Caf de Flore ) does an excellent job of telling the twisty tale of Ron 's metamorphoses from near-death homophobe to drug-smuggling entrepreneur . The performances are spectacular , McConaughey 's especially , so alive in approaching death . 	Dallas Buyers Club rests squarely on Matthew McConaughey 's scrawny shoulders , and he carries the burden gracefully with what might be a career-best performance .
1154157-big mommas house 2 The funniest thing about Big Momma 's House 2 is what I believe to be a grammar error in its press notes . Mercifully free of excess mania , sexual innuendo and fart jokes , this sweet-natured comedy , ably directed by John Whitesell ( Malibu 's Most Wanted ) , has some nice bits of business ... So desperate that barely a half hour passes before we get the inevitable jokes about Dr. Phil , Oprah , Al Sharpton , Tupac and Billy Dee . It 's been six years since the original Big Momma movie ( I guess they hoped we would forget by now how bad the first one really was ... we have n't ) . Guys who direct snuff flicks in the slums of Khazakstan probably look at Big Momma 's House 2 and think `` Hey , I 'm not such a terrible filmmaker after all ! '' ... inconsequential sequel for the undemanding moviegoer . Nothing but all-Lawrence all the time , and there 's not a lot more to the movie than the basic idea that Lawrence as an obese old lady is intrinsically funny . If you thought Big Momma 's House was funny , then two things are probably true : 1 ) You are stupid . 2 ) You will also think Big Momma 's House 2 is funny . You 'd have more fun poking out your own eyes . Is there a petition we can sign to stop Lawrence making any more movies ? A partial list of things that are more amusing than Big Momma 's House 2 : Beverly Hills Cop , Fletch , the original Big Momma 's House , every sitcom currently on TV , open-heart surgery . 	Unfunny and unoriginal . In other words , a perfect piece of evidence for opponents of pointless movie sequels .
avengers age of ultron In many ways , Marvel has grown up and passed Whedon by - and his jocular take on the material does n't just feel stale , it feels like a step back . ... a comic book movie frequently begging to actually be a comic book , with panels allowing readers to pause and pour over fantastic detail that Whedon whizzes by ... battle-rattling our senses from start to anticlimactic finish . This movie is fine , honestly . I rather liked it . It was like Whedon thought about the 1st film and felt it was n't deep enough , not realizing that its success was its comic book shallowness . It was just fun for audiences . Director Joss Whedon follows up his billion-dollar superhero smash the way most sequel makers try to up their game : by amping up everything everybody liked the first time around , plus more ! More ! More ! It does n't have the fist-pumping highs of the first film , but AGE OF ULTRON is deeper , more emotional and all-around better . `` Avengers : Age of Ultron '' brings the best of all the Marvel worlds for the first explosive superhero thrill-ride of the year . Regardless , this time with Avengers : Age of Ultron , our socks were only tugged on , halfway flopping off our collective toes , but never blown quite off . This is indisputably a sequel in just about every sense of the word : bigger , louder , sillier ( and not always in a good way ) , more ambitious and , alas , less satisfying than the film that came before it . ... mostly registers as yet another Marvel punchplosion . 	Exuberant and eye-popping , Avengers : Age of Ultron serves as an overstuffed but mostly satisfying sequel , reuniting its predecessor 's unwieldy cast with a few new additions and a worthy foe .
jane eyre 2011 Bring tissues . You 've been warned . Wasikowska is the revelation here -- her wary , intelligent face tells us volumes about this abused but unbowed young woman . But the small roles are also beautifully cast . There is not a drab image or a middling performance in the piece . The freewheeling adaptation drops needless scenes and spurs the story ahead with galloping momentum . Acclaimed director Cary Fukunaga brings his vision to Moira Buffini 's screenplay , which while faithful to Bronte 's 1847 novel , has in part changed the story 's structure . The resulting fine film envelopes us with the power of its imagery and sombre mood Our belief in the relationship keeps us invested in `` Eyre '' even as its dated gender/class ideas test ( sometimes too much ) our 21st-century sensibilities , and the story rolls out its gothic hooey . There is a ready-made audience out there and ... .may even attract a new generation of fans for [ Charlotte ] Bronte 's classic . The story is a little too compact at times but the exquisite performance of Mia Wasikowska makes this film stand out . With spellbinding romantic performances by Wasikowska and Fassbender as her elusive love , some guys might find this slow , but I was completely blown away . It has passion all right -- in the stylistics . Those star-crossed love birds Jane and Rochester are no match for the tracking shots and throbbing violins . Pretty as a postcard -- a postcard of a dark grey , gloomy , windswept moor 	Cary Fukunaga directs a fiery and elegant adaptation of Charlotte Bronte 's classic novel , and Mia Wasikowska delivers possibly the best portrayal of the title character ever .
hurt locker Obligatoria . Dura y capaz de tenernos con el estmago encogido en la butaca durante casi toda la pelcula , se trata de una de esas que nadie debera perderse . Often gripping at a straight thriller level , but increasingly weakened by its fuzzy psychology , Kathryn Bigelow 's The Hurt Locker does n't bring anything new to the table of grunts-in-the-firing-line movies . The Hurt Locker is a near-perfect movie about men in war , men at work . Through sturdy imagery and violent action , it says that even Hell needs heroes . There is something powerfully convincing about Bigelow 's way of placing the viewer in a situation where death is unpredictable , can come from 360 degrees , and is indiscriminate about who it takes . This film is better than any documentary I 've seen on the Iraq war . It 's so real , it 's scary . Well-written well-acted , well-directed . Multiple Oscars possible . Paul Chambers , CNN . Instead of setting out to prove a point , it seeks to immerse us in an environment -- something Bigelow does with a conceptual rigor usually associated with those directors whose work is confined to film societies and art houses . Not only the best film made so far about the war in Iraq , but also one of the best thrillers of the year . Are we 100 % positive that this film is not real footage from the Iraq war ? Bigelow has directed one of the most intense and realistic films to come out in years . Employing handheld cameras and very little music , Bigelow creates a claustrophobic and palpably dangerous environment in which one mistake could prove disastrous . This is not just a character study . This film has battle scenes of such immediacy , intensity and suspense it puts the battle scenes in most other war movies to shame . 	A well-acted , intensely shot , action filled war epic , Kathryn Bigelow 's The Hurt Locker is thus far the best of the recent dramatizations of the Iraq War .
baran An aesthetic triumph ... that never fails to retain behavioral realism . The faces of its inarticulate characters tell the story , and Majidi has put some amazing faces on the screen . The film is saved from aren't-kids-cute sentimentality by a warmth that is n't faked and a stately sense of composition . Captivates and shows how a skillful filmmaker can impart a message without bludgeoning the audience over the head . Its story is delicate and moving , and the film is a wholly commendable effort , if not quite as successful as Majidi 's previous works . Further solidifies [ Majidi 's ] growing reputation as one of the cinema 's most gifted humanist filmmakers . A well-crafted letdown . The movie itself is timeless and universal , at once artless and sophisticated in its ability to engross . Filled with honest performances and exceptional detail , Baran is a gentle film with dramatic punch , a haunting ode to humanity . a wonderfully warm human drama that remains vividly in memory long after viewing 	The lyrical Baran is a moving film , both for its love story and political underpinnings .
good bye lenin Good Bye , Lenin ! might slightly overstay its welcome , but it 's one of the few things playing right now that really stays with you after the fact . A deft balance of wistful family drama and drollery . Overlong and a bit tiresome but it 's actually about something -- not so much ostalgie as the conditions that create it . Serves up an odd but intriguing situation . We see what it is like to live in a society whose admittedly rigid and oppressive backbone collapses overnight , along with full employment , the life savings and the trust of the satellite state 's citizens . It 's a study of a fascinating shift in culture ( the family 's whole way of life changes , literally overnight ) and a story of a son 's powerful faith in his mother . Goodbye , Lenin ! is a well-realized tale of nurturing love and a witty parable about the fall of the German Democratic Republic and the rise of global consumerism . First you 're laughing , then you 're crying , and you leave with a smile and a strong desire to do something nice for your mother . The mix of melancholy and possibility that Alex and his generation feel is made real , and moving . An enjoyable comedy about keeping a big thing secret from someone and an interesting drama about family ties and values and politics . 	Funny and poignant social critique of German reunification .
les parapluies de cherbourg Seemingly banal and sentimental on the surface , [ director Jacques ] Demy has avoided these aspects by tasteful handling and the right balance in emotion , compassion and narrative . You must love musicals and sentimental romance to enjoy Jacques Demy 's all-singing film opera featuring the grand melodies of composer Michel Legrand . Deneuve is luminously beautiful throughout , looking fabulously chic even in a maternity dress . Umbrellas makes escapist play with the stuff of kitchen-sink social realism . A New Wave masterpiece ... coursing with at first the unruly passion of young love and then the measured , mannered wiseness of adolescence 's surrender to adulthood . True , it 's soap opera plotting , but the story and characters are so sweet and compelling that only the hardest heart will fail to be won over . Far more powerful than one would initially suppose . A number of different factors raise this absurdly simple scenario to the level of highest excellence , but the chief among them is surely Michel Legrand 's iconic score . An operatic masterpiece of romanticism . Ranks among my all-time favorite movies . 	Jacques Demy elevates the basic drama of everyday life into a soaring opera full of bittersweet passion and playful charm , featuring a timeless performance from Catherine Deneuve .
looper Looper is among the cleverest , most skillfully crafted and entertaining sci-fi thrillers of the past 20 years . Johnson 's action scenes occasionally stumble , but the devilishly clever script makes `` Looper '' a thrilling , dizzying ride . A mind-bending masterpiece that 's a must for more cerebral fans of the time-travel genre . The most robust pure sci-fi in years - tighter and more fun than even 'Inception ' , if not as dizzyingly ambitious in its engineering . You 'll be unravelling its time travel machinations in your head as you walk from the cinema , but there are some scenes that will live much longer in the memory . A bold , ambitious sci-fi drama that is destined to be more admired than adored . Besides a challenging time-travel premise , a dark sense of humor , and some thrilling action scenes , Looper has the kind emotional weight that you would n't expect . This is a hugely satisfying , enjoyable and thought-provoking piece of work . The first half of writer/director Rian Johnson 's film is gripping , but by the second half it 's all become unbelievably confused and disjointed . The reasoning behind all this may not reward prolonged inspection , but Johnson is smart enough to press onward with his plot , leaving us with neither the time nor the desire to linger over the logic ... 	As thought-provoking as it is thrilling , Looper delivers an uncommonly smart , bravely original blend of futuristic sci-fi and good old-fashioned action .
semi pro Jackie 's vast neediness and ego overwhelm not only Coffee Black , but also the rest of Semi-Pro . `` Semi-Pro '' is not even semi-funny . Semi-Pro is all fancy dribbling and passing , with nobody actually scoring . After four jock-themed comedies in three years , Semi-Pro -- his latest reiteration of growth-stunted masculinity -- ca n't help but make you feel it 's time he benched the routine . The Will Ferrell man-boy persona , a combination of obstinacy , idiocy and innocence that Ferrell has ushered through several successful comedies , finally gets called for traveling in Semi-Pro . No one will argue that Semi-Pro is n't crude and lewd . Thanks to Ferrell and his cast of crazies , however , it plays the lowbrow genre like an all-pro . There was trailer before the film for Harold and Kumar : Escape from Guantonamo Bay , which actually made me laugh more than the entire film of Semi-Pro . No more can filmmakers get instant laughs with Pong , ascots , eight-tracks and lava lamps . It 's just no longer funny . And for 95 percent of its running time , neither is Semi-Pro . So clichd it becomes the movie it is supposed to mock Will Ferrell fans probably could n't care less that Semi-Pro fails to take full advantage of an extraordinarily rich premise . 	Semi-Pro is an intermittently funny , half-hearted attempt at sports satire , and one of Will Ferrell 's weaker cinematic efforts .
stuart little Though the filmmakers never really come close to realizing such lofty goals , they do succeed often enough to keep both children and adults satisfactorily diverted . Somewhere , E.B . White is rolling in his grave . I found myself caring for the humble little mouse , and that 's the whole point . M. Night Shyamalan assembled the year 's most memorable cinematic portrayal of a single-parent household . It is a movie that children should enjoy greatly , and that adults will find sweet and lovable and frequent good fun . This simple story features amazing computer effects to render Stuart and a story that will bore anyone over the age of ten . The single best thing about Stuart Little is Nathan Lane . Everyone wishes Hollywood would make more high-quality , entertaining family films . Thankfully , they still turn up every now and then . The season 's most promising family draw . A delightful charmer for all ages . 	Critics say Stuart Little is charming with kids and adults for its humor and visual effects .
urban legends final cut As if there were n't enough self-consciously cute postmodern horror flicks already in existence , along comes Urban Legends : Final Cut to further fill that nonexistent void . A gripping ride into terror , embracing the horror genre wholeheartedly and giving us a nail-biting , heart-jolting experience . Let 's hope this is the last one . So stupid and sloppy , it will offend the intelligence of anyone whose age surpasses his shoe size . Makes the original Urban Legend look like an Alfred Hitchcock movie by comparison . Derivative slasher movies , as a genre , are over , and you do n't have to be a film school student to know that . As the body count continues to grow , along with the inevitable clues as to who the killer really is , it 's hard not to feel angry that you 've spent almost two hours watching this moronic exercise . Mr. Ottman does n't have the firm grasp of tone necessary to make his deliberate ambiguities seem other than simple confusion . This horror-and-suspense vehicle , which dabbles pointlessly in reflexivity , does n't do much with its pseudosavvy characters . It 's not just amateurish , it 's completely inept from premise to execution . 	This teen horror movie brings nothing new to an already exhausted genre . And it 's bad . Really bad .
beyond the gates By keeping most of the action contained to the school grounds and immediate environs , director Michael Caton-Jones creates a claustrophobic atmosphere where fear can fester . The film chronicles man 's inhumanity to man during the Rwandan genocide of 1994 , ( where ) selflessness and selfishness stand side by side -- -- Beyond the Gates is tragedy writ large , and an indictment of the international community which did nothing to stop it . Shooting Dogs falls into the trap of filtering an inherently African story through the eyes of a noble white protagonist . By dodging cultural and political specifics in favor of a thriller-lite framework Beyond the Gates ends up serving largely as a tribute to the virtues of hindsight . The movie does suggest that Joe 's ignorance and sense of privilege , however honorable his intentions , make a dangerous combination . Tense and gut-wrenching , Beyond the Gates is a horrifying story told with grace and compassion . Caton-Jones ' dramatization of an all-too-real story carries an authenticity that often makes it difficult to bear , particularly when one considers that much the same thing is now occurring in the Sudan . Despite its reliance on the white characters for drama , its biggest achievement is simply in revealing the sheer horror of the genocide . The film grinds inexorably toward its unsurprising and terrible conclusion with infinite grace but no real suspense . 	Complex , human characters and on-location shooting give Beyond the Gates palpable tension and urgency .
fast food nation Many of the film 's subtler points are likely to slip by viewers who have n't first read Schlosser 's book . Other salient points are shoehorned into the dialogue , rendering key scenes preachy , heavy-handed and dramatically inert . All Linklater can do is play to the rafters , and for a film that 's intended to wean audiences off fast food , you might find yourself purchasing some after the show just to spite this disappointing film . The unstoppable director Richard Linklater ( A Scanner Darkly ) and writer Eric Schlosser take the latter 's nonfiction bestseller and rig up a fictitious , sprawling narrative to take up the book 's scathing talking points . Blame director Richard Linklater and author Eric Schlosser for cooking Schlosser 's best-selling book into an unhappy movie meal . This was never intended to be a conventional movie , but more like a personal industrial film illustrating the process that brings the corpse of a cow to your dinner table . Linklater and Schlosser 's script is uneven and , ultimately , too erratic in focus to make a lasting impact . It 's a shame that film is as priggish , poorly constructed and plug earnest as it is . Intelligent and radical , this meaty expos of corporate greed offers plenty to chew on . It 's the performances and Linklater 's devotion to them and not just the nation that make this a meal worth eating . The stories lack shape , and the procession of famous faces detracts from the low-key , realist tone . 	Despite some fine performances and memorable scenes , Fast Food Nation is more effective as Eric Schlosser 's eye-opening non-fiction book than as Richard Linklater 's fictionalized , mostly punchless movie .
wind that shakes the barley Beautifully made it may be , but The Wind is a movie that engages the head while never troubling the heart . Raises hard questions about Ireland 's uncanny ability to kneecap itself . the intensity of Murphy and Delaney 's performances is shattering ... 'Wind ' never loses sight of the fact that sometimes a victim 's wounds may be invisible to the eye , but every bit as painful as a stabbing ... Loach delivers a moving and often beautiful story that captures the essence of the conflict , with all its unintended consequences and personal tragedies . Bloody and brutal , evoking obvious , relevant comparisons between Ireland 's internal conflicts and the ongoing civil war in Iraq . It does [ make for good drama ] , though at times its didacticism can be a bit wearying . A social drama so well built that it can pump out thrills while fueling Damian 's motivation . It 's unmistakably the work of aging cinema activist Ken Loach , who wears his social-justice heart on his sleeve ... ... the history presented in `` The Wind That Shakes the Barley '' hardly feels like a closed book or a museum display . It is as alive and as troubling as anything on the evening news , though far more thoughtful and beautiful . A passionate and pitiless piece of work that fails only near the end when its internal political dogmatism outstrips and undercuts the story itself . 	Bleak and uncompromising , but director Ken Loach brightens his film with gorgeous cinematography and tight pacing , and features a fine performance from Cillian Murphy .
after the wedding [ Director ] Bier has lots [ of ] surprises up her sleeve to keep After the Wedding humming for two solid hours . As a critic , I do n't always have the luxury of choosing everything I see . And a lucky thing , too , because director Susanne Bier 's After the Wedding is making a strong argument that my instincts about Danish cinema are wrong wrong wrong . A thrilling -- and harrowing , and beautiful -- celebration of the unpredictability of life . Helene , caught like Jacob between lives , spends much of the film trying to explicate choices that now look only wrong . ... a powerful drama about secrets ... At times it threatens to veer into soap opera , but the filmmakers and actors keep it true . Evidently , this bloated piece of Oscar-nominated nonsense was a big hit in Denmark , which makes me think there 's a glittering future in that otherwise discriminating country for several seasons of Days of Our Lives . For a filmmaker who 's so attracted to psychological discomfort , Bier has a disarming affinity with the pleasure principle . In this she 's further blessed to have cast the riveting Mikkelsen , who here displays the self-conscious jitter of the young Pacino . Dark secrets eat away from within , but after 120 minutes of self-loathing this soapy tale fails to engage with either genuine mystery or genuine reconciliation . This melodrama about a miserable Good Samaritan ( Mads Mikkelsen ) staring down a difficult ( and heroically contrived ) ethical dilemma gets soapier -- and dopier -- as it goes along . A paradoxical , if ultimately plausible portrait of a fractured family which deals with baby-daddy drama in a way which puts similar , relatively-flip Hollywood fare to shame . 	The cast brings After the Wedding 's melodramatic script to life , creating a movie that is emotionally raw and satisfying .
1095414-whatever it takes The script 's way of handling its romantic complications is unusually obtuse and insensitive . The unoriginal plot mixed with the apparent inability to land a single joke doom the production for expulsion from the ranks of decent cinema . An occasionally amusing but otherwise unimaginative teen-based comedy . The only thing you wo n't see through the sparkling smiles of the fresh-faced , beautiful cast is an original thought or message . There are way too many poop and crotch jokes . Falls flat with unbelievably bad scenes that are also just plain unbelievable . This is the cinematic equivalent of those over-the-hill jocks who show up at their high school 's game wearing a mothballed letter-jacket . If you saw a single John Hughes movie from the 1980s , you 've already seen this territory covered with more style and insight . Whatever It Takes is light , fluffy , fast-paced , and through the sludge of overdone ideas are a couple original moments . While it is n't really worth the trip to the theater , it 's good enough for a rental when it comes out on video . 	Whatever It Takes is another run-of-the-mill teeny-bopper romance flick . Cliche jokes and a tired plot capture few laughs .
1125540-dummy An ultimate crowd-pleaser . Walter and Douglas stand out in particular . It 's no surprise that Brody , Douglas , Walter and Leibman make for one highly entertaining , if messed up , family unit , but the big revelation here is Jovovich . Brody ... is the movie 's weakest link , turning in a performance almost as wooden as the doll that sits on his knee . The characters are all strangely endearing , and the real pleasure of the movie is just watching them interact . What could have been a biting dark comedy is , instead , uninspired and generic . It 's a sweetly sad and sadly funny tale , conceived with quirky sensitivity , but , though its actors are adept , it only just hangs together , like a sitcom still in rehearsal stages . Adrien Brody rescues Greg Pritikin 's self-consciously eccentric comedy . Pritikin 's movie succeeds ... thanks to its spirited , oddball humor and winning performances Yes , I 'm sounding like Joel Siegel here , but I simply loved this film . It 's quite honestly a great time from end to end . I honestly ca n't think of a negative in the entire thing , and my therapist will tell you I 'm a pretty negative guy . 	Dummy is a sweet family comedy that succeeds due to charming performances , even if the final product feels slightly undercooked .
team america world police Profane , violent , and scabrously funny , this Team has something to offend all , from pious Hollywood liberals to knee-jerk nationalists . All told , the clever visual bits and hilarious songs do n't entirely compensate for the many flat or beyond-over- the-top spells . There are too many gags that fall flat and the strain of an all-marionette cast shows all too often . Team America puts Michael Moore and company to shame by being fair and balanced in its comic assault on the left and right . As quickly as Parker and Stone win us over with their raunchy wartime send-up , they let victory slip away with one snide , silly , gross scene after another . Despite the film 's originality , I grew tired of looking at all those puppets after about 15 minutes , which is how I usually I feel when watching any wooden actors . Its wit is played at the expense of unexpected targets ... still , `` Team America '' is a descent into truly offensive , hysterical satire . Hilarious ... I ca n't give out more information without committing a hate crime . By turns hilarious , idiotic , thoughtful , scatological , and occasionally all of these at the same time . It 's rude and raunchy , and it has a message -- sort of . You have to wade through an awful lot of obscenity to get to it , though . 	Team America will either offend you or leave you in stitches . It 'll probably do both .
assassination of jesse james by the coward robert ford Fact is , The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford should have been better . It should have followed the real focus on the story and done away with at least an hour of subplotting . A surprising near-masterpiece , and the best Western to come across the range since Clint Eastwood 's Unforgiven and Jim Jarmusch 's Dead Man . This is the year 's epic western , and one wonders why it took so long to get out of the cutting room . See it . Casey Affleck gives an outstanding performance that proves him to be a character actor of immense creativity , clarity and composure . Pitt 's subtle work -- relaxed and confident , yet seething with quiet menace -- is complemented beautifully by Affleck 's enigmatic Ford , whose admiration for ( and fear of ) James distinguishes him from a run-of-the-mill scoundrel . As of October 1st 2007 , this is officially the best film I have seen all year . As overlaong and pretentious as its title , The Assassination of Jesse James is worth a look almost in spite of itself . The titular act of violence is the best scene in the film , radiating a kind of unavoidable fatality that elevates the lethal gunshot from a just another bang to something triggering a very strong sense of epochal change . Dominik paints a richly detailed mosaic on locations in Calgary and Winnipeg , and you can only marvel at the visual miracles achieved by cinematographer Roger Deakins . With an almost aching restraint in the performances and storytelling , Assassination makes for a quite enjoyable film if you give yourself over to its pacing and style . 	On the strength of its two lead performances Assassination is an expertly crafted period piece , and an insightful look at one of the enduring figures of American lore .
nightmare on elm street Craven vitalizes the nightmare sequences with assorted surrealist novelties . A top-flight terror classic that spawned seven sequels and a TV series . A well-crafted , meaningful addition to its genre . A smart , streamlined slasher with plenty under the bonnet . The far superior of the two defining horror franchises of the '80s . Terrifically spooky and original , the film continues to feel completely modern despite being almost a quarter-century old . One of the best all-out horror movies ever made . What the film did more than anything else was create a new horror star . ... decidedly anti-art - at one point , a teen dozes off while reading Shakespeare - yet it still manages to rank among the top horror movies of all time . First feature for knife-handed horror idol Freddy . 	Wes Craven 's intelligent premise , combined with the horrifying visual appearance of Freddy Krueger , still causes nightmares to this day .
it follows Anyone who makes horror films should be inspired by movies like It Follows . Not since Freddy Krueger stalked teenagers in their sleep have I felt so completely like the poor kids on screen had nowhere to run , and nowhere to hide . Even when you strip away the subtext and symbolism , It Follows is just a genuinely creepy movie . An assured piece of filmmaking that works as both a horror movie and a coming-of-age story . That ceaseless slow march will likely become 2015 's scariest image . The most fun will be in dissecting it afterwards . Film school professors , look forward to a decade of term papers . Even though the setup creates little more than variations on the same basic threat , the film maintains a rigorous tension that is as unrelenting as the ambiguous monstrosity that keeps coming at us . It 's hard not to share Jay 's mounting panic as she watches the thing in its various guises walking slowly toward her wherever she may be , invisible to everyone else and entirely intent on destroying her . One of the best horror films in recent years . [ Full review in Spanish ] Just when it seemed that there would never be another original teen horror movie comes this rough-edged but pleasingly creepy American indie ... 	Smart , original , and above all terrifying , It Follows is the rare modern horror film that works on multiple levels -- and leaves a lingering sting .
south park bigger longer and uncut It may do nothing more than leave you choking back the laughs for fear of acknowledging the power of your inner 12-year-old . Parker and Stone have given us scathing but optimistic savagery . Tasteless , scatalogical and very funny ! The profanity for profanity 's sake approach shows a lack of imagination when many in the past have used similar vulgarities with far more amusing and creatively pleasant results . Raunchy , riotously irreverent and thrillingly rangy ! South Park is profoundly stupid , but given the times it has guts . So what do we get with all this vulgarity , shock and indignity , other than cringes and laughs ? One of the best films of the year , that 's all . The satirical message is that the moral defenders of impressionable American youth would literally rather see violent death than obscenity , but Parker and Stone end up delivering both in overabundant quantities to prove their point . Having seen the show on numerous occasions , I can say that it 's not nearly as smart or as funny as this movie . A few good jokes for every dozen groaners ! 	Its jokes are profoundly bold and rude but incredibly funny at the same time .
warm bodies Warm Bodies moves at a steady pace and includes enough charming moments to keep the film alive ( even if the romance is just undead ) . It 's the Hello Kitty of zombie flicks . The film does win you over . This is largely in part to its pair of young actors , Hoult and Palmer , who and have a great deal of chemistry and inject a zip and a fizz into all of their scenes . The creative production design and earnest script go a long way in elevating so modest a work . Unlike much of early 2013 's dead-on-arrival movie fare , this picture has a pulse , and a brain , and a heart that beats strong . Hoult and Palmer carry `` Warm Bodies '' with a delightful conviction their characters ' forbidden , `` Romeo and Juliet '' -like bond can be played like other movie romances , albeit with an obvious twist . Not only did Warm Bodies fail to convince me of its central conceit , but the movie 's general depiction of zombie life is shoddy , inconsistent and often downright dumb . The likable if not remarkable Warm Bodies is the world 's first romantic zombie comedy , told from the point of view of a dead guy . Jonathan Levine 's horror rom-com gives the walking corpse genre a Twilight twist ... An oddball romantic farce that takes place in a horror movie world . Weird , earnest , and rather affable . 	Warm Bodies offers a sweet , well-acted spin on a genre that all too often lives down to its brain-dead protagonists .
wild 2014 Reese Witherspoon delivers her best performance since she won the Best Actress Oscar for 'Walk the Line ' a decade ago . A ruggedly beautiful and emotionally resonant saga of perseverance and self-discovery that represents a fine addition to the recent bumper crop of bigscreen survival stories . Wild is far more than just Oscar bait for an A-list star . Based on Cheryl Strayed 's memoir , it 's a galvanizing human-interest story of the highest order , centering on a woman who immediately emerges as one of the cinematic year 's most complex individuals . For the time being , Witherspoon - sometimes a wonderful actress and sometimes a maddening one - has found herself . screenwriter Nick Hornby understands aimless characters , and his script is a skillful balancing act . It undercuts an overly serious tone whenever possible and layers in a poignancy that rarely seems forced . Wild is more than a showcase for Reese Witherspoon 's performance , it 's a meditative journey that is refreshingly funny , insightful , and poignant . Reese Witherspoon pulls on a pair of ill-fitting hiking boots and stomps straight into the Oscar race with a raw , wrenching performance as the writer Cheryl Strayed in this journey back from the brink . Valle avoids clumsiness in exploring that internal landscape and Witherspoon , too , gives a delicate , sensitive and gutsy performance ... Little adventure or real catharsis in the rather bland , surprisingly superficial terrain . It is certainly Witherspoon 's best performance since Line ... But her performance ca n't deliver the emotional punch the film requires 	Powerfully moving and emotionally resonant , Wild finds director Jean-Marc Valle and star Reese Witherspoon working at the peak of their respective powers .
tristram shandy a cock and bull story With a subject seemingly so amenable to heartless derision , the film is remarkable for its warmth and generosity and conviviality . A film as inspired as its source . You would think [ the ] book would be unfilmable , and you 'd be right . But that did n't stop [ director ] Michael Winterbottom from taking it on . Probably the best-known but-I-digress novel in English literature , The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy , Gentleman , has inspired Tristram Shandy : A Cock and Bull Story , surely the best but-I-digress movie this side of Adaptation . layered absurdist humor abounds within its wonderfully loose format A successful mix of literary adaptation , meta-fictional discourse and inside-showbiz comedy . Both funny and clever . It 's official : Michael Winterbottom makes the best cinematic whatchamacallits around . Tristram Shandy is that best of all worlds : a continual surprise from one scene to the next . A delirious orgy of self-reflexive ridiculousness . Like The French Lieutenant 's Woman , it 's as much commentary as adaptation , but with a more playful approach and an understated , typically British sense of humor . 	Though Laurence Sterne 's novel was considered more or less impossible to successfully adapt to film , director Michael Winterbottom has done it in Tristram Shandy : A Cock and Bull Story , by making movie about the making of the movie . Stars Steve Coogan and Rob Brydon add madcap , knowing performances to the mix , and the result is a fun , postmodern romp , before there was any modern romp to post .
memoirs of a geisha [ T ] he movie works off its trio of delicious star performances , its sumptuous production values , its sprawling sets of old Kyoto , its sweeping John Williams score and haunting cello solos by Yo-Yo Ma . [ A ] beautiful and lush but thematically flawed and even disturbing portrait of a prisoner who adopts the reality of her captors and of a love stunted by captivity . Memoirs loses its taste for risk , and settles , throughout the movie 's subsequent melodramatic turns , for the familiar blandishments of good looks and technical control . Memoirs of a Geisha , the big-screen adaptation of Arthur Golden 's best-selling novel , has a lesson to teach : Designing a movie is n't the same as directing one . Meticulously produced and detailed , Geisha is a feast for the eyes , but icy to the touch . The filmmakers make characters crasser , ignore nuances within geisha tradition and give characters attitudes and dialogue highly unlikely for Depression-era Japan . Marshall weaves together an exotically sumptuous production frayed by a disappointing ending that tries to draw a powdered happy face on tragedy . Spanning two decades and a momentous war , Memoirs of a Geisha displays all the pomp and grandeur of an epic , but you would n't call it sweeping . full review in Greek A bloated melodrama more interested in poses than inner lives ( according to some Japanese-culture-vultures , it gets the poses wrong , too ) . 	Less nuanced than its source material , Memoirs of a Geisha may be a lavish production , but it still carries the simplistic air of a soap opera .
10011582-TRON legacy An entertaining jaunt into the digital dimension , with Jeff Bridges , Jeff Bridges 2.0 , Olivia Wilde , and Michael Sheen 's Mad-Hatter-at-Studio-54 . It 's still a soulless machine for making Disney mountains of cash , of course , but you can feel it striving to be more . Which is , at the end of the game , what singularity is all about . ... a breathtaking special-effects extravaganza that generally manages to outdo its big-budget cinematic brethren in terms of excitement and audaciousness ... This reboot may not be as revolutionary as it thinks , but it 's definitely worth a second glance . Like its predecessor , the movie has enough dazzling visuals and awesome action to generally compensate for a story that often feels a little thin . It will sort of satisfy the fans who have been waiting decades for it to appear , though it is doubtful that they will venerate it to the degree that they did with the first one . Worth its while for the next generation special f/x alone , especially when witnessed in 3D . Even though it makes very little sense , it just looks kind of amazing . And it 's fun . With the derivative story and direction , the whizzy effects are its only calling card TRON : Legacy is not a good movie . Not even close . Visually stunning . Yes . The mostly black and white , glow-in-the-dark effects - especially in 3D - are a mind-blow . 	Tron Legacy boasts dazzling visuals , but its human characters and story get lost amidst its state-of-the-art production design .
enron the smartest guys in the room Decodes the Enron scandal , ties it in with California energy crisis . The movie helps the average American understand the nature of the shell games perpetuated by Enron and how 'synergistic corruptions ' can corrupt absolutely . ... a couple of Nietzschean supermen who as , respectively , chairman of the board and chief executive officer ... may have run the biggest Ponzi scheme in history . [ Gibney ] tells a complex story well , explaining how one once-obscure company ended up committing 'the corporate crime of the century . ' The story is fascinating , infuriating and even laugh-out-loud funny at times . As real-life stories go , this is as riveting -- and as revealing about the dark side of American business -- as they come . Warning : This is not a film for liberals with high blood pressure . As one of the many talking heads says , the story of Enron 'is not just a story of numbers . It 's a human story and a human tragedy . ' A meticulously researched and ably handled chronicle of one of the largest corporate scandals in American history . Enron : The Smartest Guys in the Room is not only a great cautionary tale , it 's a civics lesson that should be seen by every concerned citizen . 	A concise , entertaining documentary about the spectacular failure of Enron .
99 homes Ramin Bahrani continues on his successful journey as a purveyor of excellent and challenging films for the thinking audience . Can a good person succeed by playing by their rules ? I actually hope he ca n't . I would really lose hope if cheating was the answer . The film eventually drifts away from the more interesting , complicated , and difficult story of survival and individual choices , towards moralistic judgments on the honesty of the work . Still , `` 99 Homes '' is one of the scariest films you 'll see all year . Where many well-meaning social dramas inevitably turn soggy with moralizing , the visceral 99 Homes keeps its fire . This is a film of palpable anger , a finger on the pulse of modern America crafted by a team of rare ability to awaken outrage . Empathetic & socially-conscious , effectively exposing real-estate corruption ... Absorbing , entertaining drama with an on-target message ... `` 99 Homes '' is a ferocious excavation of the meaning of home , the desperation attached to real estate , the pride of ownership and the stability of belonging . The pace never lets up . ... perfectly watchable drama that benefits substantially from the stellar efforts of its two stars . Bahrani does an excellent job of taking the conflict and running with it - though simple issues in choices and approach prevent 99 Homes from being great . 	Fueled by powerful acting and a taut , patiently constructed narrative , 99 Homes is a modern economic parable whose righteous fury is matched by its intelligence and compassion .
yes man Numbingly predictable and not as filled with action as the misleading poster suggests . Falls squarely into the category of seen-Carrey-do-this-before , and it 's surprising how few laughs there are on his character 's path to self-improvement . Given the gloom of this season 's holiday releases it is positively cheering just to see a character turn his frown upside down . No , man . If you 're thinking 'yuck , ' you 're right . It 's pleasant to watch something a little less intellectually taxing between all the would-be Oscar contenders . Yes Man is that movie -- undemanding , light , and enjoyable on its own terms . t 's easy to wish that Jim Carrey had declined the chance to appear in this film that celebrates saying `` Yes '' to life 's possibilities . A film for our time , in the Frank Capra tradition . Director Peyton Reed keeps the movie handsome , but there 's little of the style he brought to the overlooked Down With Love or even the dire-but-distinctive The Break-Up . Yes Man rediscovers Jim Carrey 's comic mojo ... but it wo n't be enough to restore him as King of Film Comedy . 	Jim Carrey 's comic convulsions are the only bright spots in this otherwise dim and predictable comedy .
blow an aspiring epic that is much like George Jung himself , who admits in a voice-over narration near the end that his aspirations were greater than his talent . Does the movie make us care ? Not really , which is the movie 's basic problem . Languishes nondescriptly in a vast powdery wasteland , somewhere between Boogie Nights and Scarface . Although it is an easy movie to enjoy , it is n't especially challenging or insightful . Penlope Cruz usually mesmerizes , but here she 's playing such a one-dimensional shrew that her beauty and charm count for little . A collision of Death of a Salesman with Scarface . Rambling and confused , the film shows much concern for plot and not enough for characterization , particularly in second half which unfolds as a catalog of events . Misdirected , the usually reliable Depp gives a confused and scattered performance . The story here is intriguing , but there is something hinted at in between the plot that really struck me . Shoots itself in the foot with one wrongheaded turn . The panorama is funneled through the experience of an increasingly dull character . 	With elements that seem borrowed from movies like Goodfellas and Boogie Nights , Blow is pretty much been-there-done-that despite another excellent performance from Johnny Depp . It , also , becomes too sentimental at the end .
hellboy 2 the golden army Del Toro 's imagination cuts loose with a sharp , witty script . Hellboy 2 is the fun , fantastic comic book blast that the original film never quite lived up to . I 'll be looking forward to `` Hellboy 3 : Rise of the Little Red Babies '' in a couple of year Despite the sheer force of imagination that 's on display from the first frame to the last , Hellboy II simply feels like an unnecessary vanity project . One of the most purely enjoyable -- not to mention dazzling -- comic book blockbusters to come along this summer . The makeup and costumes are great , but for something so otherwise creative , the story is obvious and predictable . Trust Guillermo Del Toro to deliver a summer action adventure which is gleefully unpretentious in its desire to entertain while filled with some of the season 's most inventive visual effects and creature designs . There 's a precision to the visual ornateness of Hellboy II that exceeds even that of its predecessor . Hellboy II : The Golden Army zips from tense showdown to eerie spectacle at particle-accelerator speed . Despite a few standout moments -- particularly Hellboy 's drunken rendition of Barry Manilow 's `` Ca n't Smile Without You '' -- the film is unlikely to beguile those who are n't already fans of the comic . Hellboy is it 's own world . That is a compliment and also the problem . Director Guillermo del Toro has envisioned a fantastic looking world , but it 's just a vision . I 'm just not interested in this film very much . I wish I was . But it 's good to look at . 	Guillermo del Toro crafts a stellar comic book sequel , boasting visuals that are as imaginative as the characters are endearing .
lucky you Feels like Showgirls without the tits or dancing . ... a mildly diverting throwback to star vehicles of the 1930s ( it 's easy to picture the three leads played by Clark Gable , Jean Harlow and Lionel Barrymore ) . Ca n't decide whether it 's a cautionary tale about gambling , a weepy father-son drama or a breezy rom-com . I 'm exhausted that Hanson , a director I genuinely like and admire , has made it his mission to produce films that are career-autobiographical in that way . The beats here are n't bad , they 're just slow , slight and rather predictable . It 's a ponderous , anemic bore about how to play poker that exploits the trendy gambling fever that is all the rage on the Internet and cable TV , but does n't have enough energy to keep the most catatonic tournament-poker addict awake . With undue emphasis placed on the cards instead of the characters , Lucky You is holding a losing hand by the time it reaches the river . A 'realistic ' Vegas movie that will set no-one 's soul on fire , but is further proof that Hanson can lend his talents to any style of movie . Lucky You is a decent and often engaging character study that deserved more respect from critics and the studio than it received . They should have opened it opposite the upcoming Pirates of the Caribbean : At World 's End . That way maybe no one would have seen it . 	Lucky You tries to combine a romantic story with the high-stakes world of poker , but comes up with an empty hand .
the tree of life 2011 I 've seen it twice now , and though this childhood was not my childhood , and my spiritual yearnings are not Malick 's , `` The Tree of Life '' already has come to mean a great deal to me . ... it 's the most bold and unconventional and visionary picture made using the apparatus of big-studio pictures since Kubrick 's [ 2001 ] . It 's a screen saver . Its neatest trick is that it feels like a Malick autobiography even as it directly speaks to receptive viewers on a one-to-one basis . It 's cinema as a give-and-take relationship : The movie can only provide as much as the viewer is willing to put into it . Malick 's TREE OF LIFE is a modern day masterpiece . It is no doubt Malick 's most ambitious motion picture to date , and , regrettably , his most misguided . Not since `` The Fountain '' have I been left pondering on the bigger picture for such an extended period of time ... I got a sense the 67-year-old Malick cared little about whether he might lose viewers but was eager to destroy the boundaries of what stories movies could tell and what ideas they could contain . Ambitious and spectacular . a truly great film , not just because of what it accomplishes , but what it even tries ; it not only depicts creation , it actually inspires it . 	Terrence Malick 's singularly deliberate style may prove unrewarding for some , but for patient viewers , Tree of Life is an emotional as well as visual treat .
happy accidents Anderson is a hopeless romantic in a cynical world , and for a brief moment he makes the case that true love is the only power that can crack time and space . Anderson shoots and ( mostly ) scores again with his eclectic riff on time-travel episodes from The Twilight Zone . An unconventional look at places in love and life where we 've all been at one time or another . Tomei jars the senses as she tries to squeeze her edginess and sculpted muscles into a role better suited for someone blonder , cuter , more comically vulnerable . A cleverly resourceful mixture of romantic comedy and sci-fi time travel . Happy Accidents looks drab and does n't take very good advantage of its New York locations , but the neurotic intensity and emotional honesty of its two leads more than make up for it . Happy Accidents is about as unconventional a romantic comedy as you 're likely to find - the only problem is that the lackluster science fiction elements keep getting in the way . Miscast performers do not help a story which is repetitive enough to outlast its 110 minutes ' time . Tangy romantic comedy plays sly games . a film of many virtues , but ... it gets stuck in a tediously repetitive cycle 	Happy Accidents has enough quirkiness and charm to rise above the more formulaic entries in the romantic comedy genre .
10009462-g force Possibly the first movie to imagine -- in 3D ! -- the comedic crime-fighting possibilities of small mammals that usually spend their days on hamster wheels . The best original blockbuster of the summer . Just to clarify that demonstrative statement , Star Trek was a reboot/re-imagining/sequel . ( 500 ) Days of Summer is n't a blockbuster . It is still better than the other sequel blockbusters . The CGI guinea pigs are startlingly realistic-looking ... which will charm kids , and the whiz-bang nonsense they get up to ... is exactly the stuff of silly , entertaining moviegoing . Nowhere near the originality of anything from Pixar . Hugely enjoyable , fast-paced action-adventure with a witty script , likeable characters , great action sequences and terrific special effects . Disney [ hates you and ] wants your money . This Jerry Bruckheimer production is a surprisingly light-footed caper for cinema 's reigning king of bombast . 1 Plexiglas ball sporting 1 hamster was fine for Disney 's Bolt . Along comes Bruckheimer -- now it 's 3 Plexiglas balls with 4 hamsters , er , guinea pigs , and 1 Transformer . Seems he 's hell bent on excess . When I review movies , I ask myself ... `` does the movie do what it set out to do ? '' G-Force set out to be an entertaining family movie that makes money . On that basis , G-Force succeeds . Guided by the principle that action movies have become generic that anybody can be plugged into the hero role and the results would be no different than if Arnold Schwarzenegger or Bruce Willis was the star . 	G-Force features manic action , but fails to come up with interesting characters or an inspired plot .
20000 days on earth Much like the man himself , it is gloriously oblique . 20,000 Days On Earth is elegant and elusive , artfully arranged and visualised by Forsyth and Pollard . It 's right up there with the best rock documentaries . That is , if you can call it a documentary . The man , the myth , and the music could only have been captured in this way , in a revealing , thrilling doco-dramatisation hybrid that 's part portrait , part peering into the artistic abyss . Yet for all the undeniable self-regard - we are very , very fond of ourselves - 20,000 Days on Earth remains an effective , occasionally moving piece of work . '20,000 Days on Earth ' is a beautifully shot piece of film poetry that ruminates on the practical implications of the highly unusual way of living that is rock stardom . Accompanied by a valuable ruminative voiceover from Cave himself , pondering the interconnectedness of his many narrative songs , the whole artefact offers a fascinating portrait of an artist and performer with a relentless drive to create . `` Something happens onstage , '' Cave says , `` where you forget who you are and become someone else . '' As much as any documentary can , 20,000 Days on Earth allows us to bear witness to what goes on in that process . 20,000 Days On Earth does n't try to be a journalistic , comprehensive study of its subject -- but with so much texture and atmosphere on tap , it does n't need to . Cave knows he 's not young anymore , and wo n't always be able to control his work or how its perceived . Watching him act accordingly is really inspiring . 	Revealing yet respectful , 20,000 Days on Earth is essential viewing for any Nick Cave fan .
ice storm This is one of those films in which nothing seems to be 'happening , ' but in retrospect , when it 's over , everything seems to have happened . The dazzling ensemble perfectly captures every nuance in one of the finest acting showcases you could hope for . Ang Lee is a terrific filmmaker , but his usually upbeat directing style is stilted by the angst It 's a well crafted , but , ultimately , negative-feeling movie . An intelligent film that will appeal to thoughtful audiences . A very good film . ... a black comedy ... that ultimately acquires Hitchcockian levels of suspense . Beautifully nuanced , passionately performed , and terrifically realized piece of work . As in any joke , destiny is a major character . The Ice Storm has delightful moments of humour , but it is essentially a sombre film . But do n't let that put you off . Oddly enough , the Taiwanese-born Lee manages to capture the look and sound of the '70s better ( at least more accurately ) than Paul Thomas Anderson did in Boogie Nights . 	Director Ang Lee revisits the ennui-laden decadence of 1970s suburban America with deft humor and gripping pathos .
under the same moon 2008 A soul-stirring film that activates our feelings of empathy with illegal immigrants in America . The specific story , while formulaic , is carried soulfully by its three main actors , who make Under the Same Moon a success despite its flaws . There are only three types of [ legal ] U.S. citizens in the film : cartoonish rich elitists , drug addicts , and whiny young Chicanos who 've shunned their Mexican heritage . What 's stuck with me are n't the film 's flaws but the success of its mission : It puts a real human face -- many human faces , in fact -- on a problem that many politicians would prefer to represent with a racist caricature . You may be pleasantly surprised by how affected you are by the small kindnesses the boy finds ... And you may be absolutely shocked at how moved you are when finally , gratefully , Carlitos ' journey comes to a joyful end . Your enjoyment of this picaresque tearjerker may depend on how much you can tolerate its shameless contrivances and didactic social realism , whereby the story exists only to illustrate the plight of illegal aliens . The power of the mother-son bond is given tender-hearted treatment in Under The Same Moon , an impressive first feature from Mexican filmmaker Patricia Riggen . Whatever you feel about illegal immigration , those affected certainly deserve to have their stories heard , and they definitely deserve less mawkish and by-the-book stories than this . This look at the Mexican immigrant experience offers a few new ideas to the currently hot topic , but it 's hard not to feel like we 've seen this sort of story too many times in recent years . Does anybody seriously believe that mother and son will not reunite in the end ? It 's only a question of how , not if . 	If Under the Same Moon is often manipulative , it is also heartfelt , and features strong performances from its leads .
law abiding citizen For large portions of Law Abiding Citizen we 're not sure who is going to be the winner here , nor who we want to be , and though it wo n't make for much of a date flick , as far as intelligent action flicks go , it gets two big burly thumbs up . While one man 's terrorist may be another 's freedom fighter , it 's not quite as simple when it comes to CIA operatives and your basic serial killer . Or rather , a CIA psycho family man that might make Jack The Ripper envious . This dull film carries just a few hints that the screenplay may once have been a bit darker . Despite the gore , which is marginally justified to drive the revenge aspect , the film is worth seeing for the clever plot turn finale as well as above average performances by leads Jamie Foxx and Gerard Butler . Saw with a conscience is not what the world needs . The film ca n't seem to make up its mind whether it wants to be an audience pleasing popcorn treat or a serious , political thriller . It ends up being partly both ... with varying degrees of success . Shamelessly crass and blatantly stupid . There oughta be laws against films like this . Butler has the showier part , but his impersonation of the tragic hero is undercut by his weird resemblance to Soupy Sales . A smug , stupid , ridiculous , ham-fisted and morally and ethically reprehensible example of the crypto-fascist and ridiculously reactionary revenge genre that somehow manages to give such things a bad name . Increasingly preposterous and asinine , but nonetheless mindlessly entertaining thanks to Gerard Butler 's oddly invigorating and captivating performance . 	Unnecessarily violent and unflinchingly absurd , Law Abiding Citizen is plagued by subpar acting and a story that defies reason .
1018639-seven samurai As an action spectacle , it is a truly magnificent work with tremendous battle scenes filled with violence and cruelty . Seven Samurai is widely acknowledged as one of Kurosawa 's , and indeed Japan 's and World cinema 's , greatest films . And it 's not just that the story is compelling . It is unforgettable . Rich in detail , vivid in characterization , leisurely in exposition , this 207-minute epic is bravura filmmaking . Seven Samurai is an unforgettable masterpiece -- the work of one of the world 's greatest filmmakers at the height of his powers . The greatest action movie ever made . This movie is so successful because of its flawless direction and very balanced combination of powerful human drama and exciting action . The action scenes in this movie are virtually unequaled by any other movie in history , even if some of the 'waiting-around ' scenes grow tiresome . Arguably the most influential epic ever made , Kurosawa 's 1954 film is a veritable textbook on how to shoot , cut , frame and present violence on screen ; Sergio Leone , Arthur Penn , Sam Peckinpah , Michael Mann and many others owe huge debut to the master Much imitated , still unsurpassed . 	Arguably Akira Kurosawa 's masterpiece , The Seven Samurai is an epic adventure classic with an engrossing story , memorable characters , and stunning action sequences that make it one of the most influential films ever made .
saving private ryan The only thing surprising about Saving Private Ryan is how conventional it is . I fully expected a much more 'noir ' vision of WWII along the lines of Oliver Stone 's Platoon . The remaining battle scenes are riveting , and in war as nowhere else difficult choices can have shattering consequences . Saving Private Ryan is an incredible movie , a near-masterpiece . I personally have never fought in a war before but I would go out on a limb and say that the first twenty minutes of the film may be the most realistic war scene I have seen . Steven Spielberg has made a film about bravery that does n't shy away from the horrors encountered by soldiers even in a `` good '' war . But he was n't quite brave enough to present the story without a comforting coat of saccharine . Ultimately , it lacks the resonance of such classics as All Quiet on the Western Front , but this is still well-meaning , strongly acted and slickly mounted , and ranks among the director 's very best films . By now we expect this level of performance and narrative competence from a Spielberg film . But what makes Saving Private Ryan a watershed is its emotional maturity . Certain to be one of the year 's most popular and talked-about movies . The combat scenes alone make it a must-see , but I sometimes wished I could fast-forward through the rest . No further commentary is needed when the raw brutality of combat is presented as indelibly as it is here . 	Anchored by another winning performance from Tom Hanks , Steven Spielberg 's unflinchingly realistic war film virtually redefines the genre .
atonement Podr resultar ms o menos bella , triste , fra , conmovedora , romntica , incluso intrascendente , pero sin duda estamos ante una pelcula exquisitamente elaborada por un brillante equipo de artistas . McEwan 's uncanny expression of the intangible has posed a challenge to those who 've brought his novels and short stories to the screen , and Wright resorts to obvious cinematic shorthand to communicate Atonement 's metaphysical ideas . Atonement does what a tragic romance is supposed to do . Epic and heart-rending , Atonement accents its old-fashioned qualities with a modern-day frankness . One of the most successful adaptations of a distinguished novel I have ever seen . zaslu % u017Euje pohvale , ali ne onakve kakve bi trebao imati ozbiljni kandidat za `` Oscara '' Atonement 's extraordinary qualities outweigh any quibbles . Acaba se sobressaindo no exatamente pela histria de amor que narra ( embora esta funcione ) , mas sim pelo curioso experimento narrativo que se prope a fazer . A film of rare refinement and artistry ... an impeccable adaptation . ... without a sense of justice , Atonement just does n't pay its penance . It turns a potentially magnificent movie into something that 's merely good . 	Atonement features strong performances , brilliant cinematography , and a unique score . Featuring deft performances from James MacAvoy and Keira Knightley , it 's a successful adaptation of Ian McEwan 's novel .
hall pass [ A ] far-fetched , mostly unfunny comedy . It 's as though the Farrelly Brothers have run out of steam , become mired in sense of entropy , and given up on forging fearlessly into new comedic territory It 's not a fizzer but I had hoped for more . Heart and cutting edge are what 's missing I would n't necessarily call it a return to form , but after The Heartbreak Kid , they could have simply aimed the camera at the end result of Hall Pass ' most scatological sequence , and it would be considered an improvement . Unfunny and unpleasant , it 's hard to believe these are the people who once made There 's Something About Mary . The first truly terrible picture of 2011 . An occasionally funny comedy with slow stretches that has directors Peter and Bobby Farrelly returning to their trademark gross-out humor . The gross-outs stick out in the Farrellys ' spotty new comedy . There 's no way that Hall Pass is anywhere near the classic comedies the brothers made earlier in their careers , but it is far from their worst comedy . Scratch out `` Hall , '' and just ... pass . 	Some filmgoers may be surprised by the Farrellys ' defense of traditional domestic values in Hall Pass -- unfortunately , they 'll probably also be dismayed by the absence of laughs .
hustle and flow The movie as a whole feels self-consciously 'important , ' as if it 's trying too hard to be a rising-up-from-the-streets story as powerful as 8 Mile was . The film feels very authentic in the way it shows these characters slaving away at the demo tape that might open the door to a better life . A timeless and well-made story of personal redemption , enhanced by Howard 's breakthrough performance and winning turns from every single supporting cast member . Hustle & Flow is a weird fusion of blaxploitation and American indie , built on a template of old-style , follow-your-dream Hollywood drama . But it works -- sometimes magnificently . Craig Brewer 's Hustle & Flow neatly sidesteps easy expectation in favor of deeply nuanced character studies and a nitty-gritty realism . Of all the exuberantly built-up beats , Taraji P. Henson 's beautifully shocked and elated response to unexpectedly forming the nucleus of `` It 's Hard Out Here for a Pimp '' gives `` Hustle '' its soul and won that song an Oscar . Of course it manipulates us ; most movies do . But it does so with such sincere , funky confidence that I loved just about every minute of it . Hustle & Flow has a heart that beats as loudly as the bass line on one of DJay 's tracks . The rest of the film sinks , hinging as it does on a creaky formula . A surprisingly charming story that -- in certain sections -- almost crystallizes into the sweetness of a Mickey Rooney-Judy Garland musical . 	Hustle & Flow is gritty and redemptive , with a profound sense of place and exciting music .
princess mononoke 1999 There is no denying the film 's visual imagination , from the awe-inspiring creature creations to the stunning forest landscapes to the sensitive human characterizations . The movie has a scope that makes Hollywood 's homiletic , follow-your-dream fables look even more solipsistic . A haunting , beautiful film that holds your attention despite its length and its complex plot . Hayao Miyazaki 's exceedingly imaginative , beautifully realized animated epic adventure has been adapted into English with tact and talent ... I was somewhat disappointed by the mundane story it presented , but the fashion in which it presented it made it completely worthwhile . Miyazaki 's hordes of animators have n't penetrated beyond the skin ; the moving creatures feel inarticulate and jerky , almost weightless , particularly when played against painterly background mattes . Brooding , occasionally bloody and often abstract , it explores animation 's dramatic potential in wonderous ways . The highest-grossing Japanese film of all time is a luxuriously animated legend of ancient gods going head to head with mankind and industry over the balance of nature . Watching the way Miyazaki and his animators can make a misty cloud drift across the screen is nothing less than pure bliss . It is definitely too much of a good thing . 	With its epic story and breathtaking visuals , Princess Mononoke is a landmark in the world of animation .
hitchhikers guide to the galaxy Devotees of the original stories are going to be frustrated that their favorite bits have been truncated or excised outright , while newbies will likely wonder what all the fuss has been about these last few decades . Flawed-but-fun . ... character interactions and relationships have been jettisoned in favor of wild gesticulations , frantic emoting and a heap of commotion . Considering all the things that could have gone wrong in the making of this picture , it 's a minor miracle that it turned out as well as it did . Small , really small ... Adams ' sci-fi cult favorite lands on the screen minus a hyper-drive . The layers of dry wit that are supposed to engage the grownups do n't work ... `` The Hitchhiker 's Guide To The Galaxy '' is an enjoyable sci-fi romp with a strong twist of self-effacing British raillery that children of all ages will get a charge from . The net effect is something like watching NBC 's disagreeable rehash of The Office . They got most of the words right , but the music is all wrong . Fans of the book will probably be a little disappointed , but anyone encountering the Hitchhiker 's Guide for the first time should be thoroughly entertained . It is very strange and very funny in a way that Adams ' work exemplified . For all its huge sets , high-tech glitz , and CGI effects , The Hitchhiker 's Guide to the Galaxy fails to capture the deadpan drollness of the Adams novels 	A frantic and occasional funny adaptation of Douglas Adams ' novel . However , it may have those unfamiliar with the source material scratching their heads .
great escape An exceptional story about teamwork . Even if you feel you know every scene backwards , there are still manifold pleasures here beyond nostalgia . Way too flabby at 168 minutes , but once this 1963 feature gets going it 's good , solid stuff . preposterous and thrilling McQueen 's motorcycle ride has long been the stuff of cinematic legend , but the movie is packed with countless memorable episodes of this caliber . The Great Escape is simply great escapism . How can you hear that theme song and not want to watch it all over again ? The Great Escape succeed as great entertainment but does so at the expense of being one of John Sturges ' best films . It 's a strictly mechanical adventure with make-believe men . Worth seeing the last half hour , if nothing else , for one of the best stunt sequences in years : McQueen 's motor-cycle bid for freedom . 	With its impeccably slow-building story and a cast for the ages , The Great Escape is an all-time action classic .
orlando At times breathtaking , at times frustrating , Orlando is an always intriguing fiction that examines life , literature , social mores and sexual difference over the period of the last four centuries in England . It 's a difficult film to describe or even analyze , and that is exactly the pleasure behind the movie . This is the kind of movie you want to talk about afterward . Unlike anything onscreen this month or this year , Orlando is serious , provocative and sometimes funny fare . Novelist Virginia Woolf might well be pleased . Compared with Potter 's bold , beautiful , original , and witty first feature , The Gold Diggers , this is safe , crowd-flattering stuff , the Driving Miss Daisy of art pictures -- a film with practically no ideas at all , but lots of fancy trimmings . Swinton 's androgynous affect has rarely been better exploited : It 's a kick to see her transition among Orlando 's numerous identities , whether wooing a Russian princess or submitting to the charms of the horseback-riding Shelmerdine . Potter possesses a natural gracefulness in presentation that helps a little but , finally , not nearly enough . Orlando is vague when she means it to be mysterious , coy when it ought to be witty , familiar when it should be bold . A sumptuous and charmingly outrageous yarn . Tilda Swinton is delicious . It seems just as fresh , spry and quirky now as it did back then . Tilda Swinton 's performance as Orlando in this adaptation of Virginia Woolf 's novel is luminous and thrilling , an omnisexual romp through 400 years of history . 	Orlando ca n't match its visual delights with equally hefty narrative -- but it 's so much fun to watch that it does n't need to .
the-company-men The Company Men could stand to express a little righteous fury . Layoffs devastate executives of a Boston-based conglomerate in a well-meaning but inert message drama from writer-director John Wells . Consistently silly , occasionally funny but mostly forced . As broad and unsurprising as The Company Men is , the filmmaker has put his finger on something frightening about the current state of the union , even if he ca n't quite diagnose it in the time allotted . The great ensemble cast delivers ! Powerful , provocative and poignant , it shrewdly reflects the emotional savagery of the worldwide economic meltdown of the past three years . Effectively , it 's a history of the effects of deindustrialisation on working-class people , but in this case it 's those in the white-collar sector who are the victims . The Company Men could well be the poster movie of 2010 . Like so many movies this year , it has great possibilities , but ultimately falters and coasts into easy commerciality . Engaging , well written drama with strong performances from a superb cast , but the absurdly privileged lifestyles of the characters do seem somewhat at odds with the point of the story . Well-intentioned but ill-gauged ... 	It might be hard for most viewers to identify with The Company Men 's well-heeled protagonists , but writer/director John Wells uses their plight to make universally resonant points -- and gets the most out of his excellent cast .
departed ... a cocky film , something that plays a little faster than real life and is stuffed to the gills with testosteronic humor . Yes , indeed , Marty 's back ... The best remake of the decade . While this may not be Scorsese 's finest film , it is without a doubt his most entertaining . The Departed is here to stay . If you like your films loaded with guns , blood and bad asses with dialects this is the film for you . Scorsese delivers a well-crafted story that will keep you engaged throughout . Is Scorsese desperate ? This screenplay has the scent of it , as if he is scraping for material to feed his basic filmic interests . This would not be the movie it is without Nicholson 's unforgettable , over-the-top , deliciously-obscene performance . The Departed is Scorsese 's most purely enjoyable movie in years . Nicholson 's unsavoury grin and seedy menace are a joy to behold . Kept in balance , The Departed 's verbal and visual gifts , gun-toting menace , down-and-dirty existentialism , and bristling suspense should please both sides of the movie aisle . If The Departed is n't among his handful of his best pictures , it 's still gripping , hot and wicked stuff . 	Featuring outstanding work from an excellent cast that includes Jack Nicholson , Leonardo DiCaprio , and Matt Damon , The Departed is a thoroughly engrossing gangster drama with the gritty authenticity and soupy morality that has infused director Martin Scorsese 's past triumphs .
yogi-bear More painful than the average bear attack . Taking the kids to a matinee of Yogi Bear in 3-D is no picnic . It 's a terrible , dumb , unimaginative film that really is n't worth the price of a cinema ticket even with ... the excellent Road Runner short that comes before it . The movie is the opposite of the cartoons : Everyone 's body is in motion , but nobody is using his head . Fond memories of Yogi cartoons may get you some way through this big-screen version - but the nostalgia soon wears off . In a way , the film is faithful to the old cartoons , in that it 's grating and tiresome and not suitable for anyone over the age of 4 . Watchable cartoon-to-live-action adaptation that earns points for a great Yogi impersonation by Dan Aykroyd and some surprisingly decent dialogue ... Poor old Yogi has a rough time of it in this miserable 3D assault of humour-free live action and lumpy animation . Slapstick comedies are rare nowadays , especially ones that viewers of all ages can enjoy . So three cheers for this part-animated redo of the old Hanna-Barbera cartoon . The new Yogi Bear is survivable . That 's as far as I 'll go . 	Yogi Bear 's 3D effects and all-star voice cast are cold comfort for its aggressively mediocre screenplay .
8 women You may not be edified by this lightweight effort , but only Scrooge or the Grinch would n't be entertained . The cast is consistently strong , particularly Deneuve and Ardant , bravely throwing caution to the wind and mugging fearlessly in an all-out effort to bring down the house . Klopt elementen van een Agatha Christie whodunnit , een frivole chansonmusical en de kleurrijke melodramas van Douglas Sirk op tot een luchtige souffle , als is de kooktijd wel wat lang . As much fun as you should be allowed to have in the dark while still maintaining possession of your clothes . Highly recommended . Although dramatically contained and almost stifling , 8 Women comes to life through each actress ' pleasurable performance . It 's more of a graduate seminar kind of fun than a Singin ' in the Rain kind of fun . Inept , tedious kitsch that even at its best feels like John Waters minus the joie de vivre . Ozon whips up performances of this stellar cast to good effect . The film weaves visual elegance , lesbian subtext , six hilariously inappropriate song-and-dance numbers and a flair for chiffon into a showcase for leading ladies of French cinema past and present . 	Featuring some of the best French actresses working today , 8 Women is frothy , delirious , over-the-top fun .
together 2001 It may be that Together only wants to remember a time . That it does with gentle , observant humor . Moodysson is an observant filmmaker , and best of all , sees the many sides of human personality that make people by turns maddening , exciting and sympathetic . A gentle satire of the counterculture movement . A wise , wry coming-of-age film , for both its adult and child characters . A scruffy delight , a movie with the happiest sort of family values . . Intensely humane and energetically humorous , Together is a film for film lovers and for anyone interested in human nature . Tinged with delicate nostalgia . A frequently hilarious movie that shows Americans from the Woodstock generation that the same daffy lifestyles existed in Sweden as well . The director 's flat presentation never involves us much in the lives of these remarkably uninteresting characters . Has universal appeal -- giving the leftist movement a good-natured punch in the ribs even as it waxes nostalgic about an idealism that soon became unfashionable . 	Managing to be both satirical and warm-hearted in its look at the inhabitants of a commune , Together successfully captures the spirit of a time .
from justin to kelly Is it too late to vote them off ? For once , we do n't have to tell you how bad a film is ... you knew before they made it . This movie is a joke , and I know it as both critic and fan . This too-many -generations-removed copy of Where the Boys Are ( 1960 ) is crammed with energetic but artless musical numbers that feature lip-synching multitudes and uninspired choreography . Arguably the most insipid movie released so far this century . Industrial-strength insipidity diluted only marginally by bad music and worse dancing . Where are Frankie and Annette ? The movie is billed as a romantic musical comedy . You coulda fooled me . Moulin Rouge ... Chicago ... From Justin to Kelly ... two steps forward and then about 16 steps back for the film musical . A better-than-expected diversion . What 's depressing about From Justin to Kelly , whose title seems to refer to the text messages he sends her , is that it 's been made without a lick of love , skill , or , apparently , money . 	A notorious stinker , From Justin To Kelly features banal songs , a witless plot , and non-existent chemistry between its American Idol-sanctioned leads .
pokemon the movie 2000 Dumb , hypocritical , and a complete waste of time . A tolerable experience . A much more intense action vehicle for hero Ash Ketchum and his band of pocket monster trainers than its leaden , sometimes claustrophobic predecessor . Surprisingly entertaining . Some films are Adults Only . Others are Family Viewing . Some should be No Parents Allowed -- for their own sanity 's sake . A lot of children 's movies ... amount to little more than commercials for merchandising . The difference with Pokmon 2000 is that the kids seemed to realize it . The rudimentary animation resembles the TV show . That the film does n't hold that much appeal to me is hardly surprising , and in the end immaterial . Pokemon goes down with a sweetness that charms without talking down to its audience . There 's a lot of motion but scant emotion . 	Despite being somewhat more exciting than the previous film , this kiddy flick still lacks any real adventure or excitement . What is does contain is choppy animation and poor voice acting . Does n't match up to virtually anything out there .
stevie Stevie is worth seeing for its provocative originality , and the debates it is bound to raise . Stevie is a tough movie to watch and an even tougher one to leave , because once you 're involved you 're implicated . A remarkable and profoundly sad experience . For all Stevie implies about the guilt , contradictions and confused motivations of its filmmaker , at bottom it is a deeply humane and touching experience . Bring Kleenex . Demonstrates how an exceptional documentary can be every bit as emotionally compelling , original and surprising as any first-rate fictional work . Steve ( `` Hoop Dreams '' ) James 's deep and singular commitment to his subject shines through in this compelling documentary . Poignant and troubling . A monster weighted by the same human blemishes and stains that prevented us from caring when it might have mattered . The road of Stevie is a rough ride , and at 145 minutes , it 's a long one . But in an age of so-called reality shows that are no more than hyped entertainment , it is a rewarding if distressing look at flawed but genuine human beings . 	Poignant documentary that 's hard to forget .
other guys The laughs ultimately take a backseat to a convoluted white-collar crime story . A summer movie that honors summer-movie conventions with a vengeance . Hope & Crosby . Abbott & Costello . Laurel & Hardy . Ferrell & Wahlberg wo n't be joining this select group if The Other Guys is any indication . This is that rarest of comedies -- inspired by a delirious , surreal , randomness , all delivered with sincere conviction and all the funnier for it . One of the biggest problems overall , besides the lack of comedy , was the lack of story . If you liked Anchorman as much I did , you will love The Other Guys . Ferrell is back ! You will want to go out and the classic TLC album after the movie ends . The ads make The Other Guys look like a spoof of buddy-cop movies , which is not exactly correct . But whatever it is , it 's funny . This is a tricky film to award a star rating , for it starts out as five-star and ends up a turkey . I 've compromised on three stars . Buddy cop mockery that works If an odd-couple comedy is unequivocally what you seek , I 'd recommend -- by a hair -- going to check out the other guys : Steve Carell and Paul Rudd in Dinner for Schmucks . 	A clever parody of cop-buddy action-comedies , The Other Guys delivers several impressive action set pieces and lots of big laughs , thanks to the assured comic chemistry between Will Ferrell and Mark Wahlberg .
burma-vj Burma VJ would be even more intense without its early announcement that some scenes have been restaged , putting the viewer in a regrettably uncertain relationship to what follows . It 's a flawlessly constructed piece of work , as relentlessly gripping as it is educational , a righteous and even uplifting paean to the continued importance of collective protest . ... pummeling , electrifying Burma VJ : Reporting from a Closed Country reignites the gut-wrenching ethos of early cinema verite as it reaffirms the power of `` film truth '' and the imperative for freedom of speech as a fundamental human right . Although directed by Denmark 's Anders Ostergaard , the true heroes of Burma VJ are the cadres of guerrilla video journalists who secretly filmed the junta 's brutal suppression of the popular revolt in the fall of 2007 . Shaky recordings , interspersed with reconstruction scenes at the VJ HQ , look surprisingly sharp and give Burma VJ an unforgettable and powerful immediacy . An incredibly moving documentary about the courage of an underground group of video journalists who bring to the world images of the 2007 protests in Burma Do not expect slick filmmaking in this somber , sobering documentary , but this is not the film 's raison d'etre . Bringing the story to worldwide light is and I hope it works . This trenchant piece of work might sound on the surface like watching a CNN broadcast in a movie theater , but stergaard has formed his film like a political thriller ... astonishing and moving . An awe-inspiring documentary by Denmark 's Anders Ostergaard that tracks how the news escaped in 2007 during Burma 's civil uprising . 	A powerfully visceral docu-drama highlighting the evils of censorship and the essential need for freedom of speech .
13th warrior `` The 13th Warrior '' is a brazen attempt to brand Antonio Banderas as an A-lister with a C-grade script . Failure attends . It neither follows a trend nor sets one . Here was a film with a scope far beyond the reaches of a mediocre director like Crichton . It harks back to the late 1950s when people actually made movies about Vikings and other seafaring heroes named Sinbad and Jason . Director John McTiernan did this long before The Hunt for Red October and he would be wise to leave it off his resume . The movie itself is unfulfilling . It just hangs there , like the aftertaste of stale beer . The film feels as if it had a bad run through the editing room . Michael Crichton is quite a character ; his films could use a little . Let 's face it . Kull : The Conqueror , as dumb and as hokey as it gets , was a lot more fun . It 's not a good sign when what the filmmakers seemingly intended to be a straightforward action film leaves the viewers saying , 'Huh ? ' 	Atmospheric , great sets and costumes , but thin plot .
1007931-from here to eternity Deserving to be seen and remembered for so much more than that kiss , this is old school drama of the highest order . I have to say that Clift 's plot is far less compelling than Lancaster 's and something of the zip goes when Frank Sinatra disappears from the action , sent to the stockade . But what a punch this movie still packs . A lavish , star-studded spectacle , much bowdlerized but redeemed by a slew of fine performances . Rapturously received from the moment it was released in 1953 , From Here to Eternity remains , half a century later , a singular cinematic experience , one of the landmarks of American film . A formidable actor 's showcase . Scriptwriter Daniel Taradash rescued , if not quite a gem , then at least a high-grade industrial diamond from this rough original . Watching it again after not seeing it for many years , I was also struck by how much of a debt novelist-screenwriter Donn Pearce ( 'Cool Hand Luke ' ) owes to Jones . ... a macho movie with heart . Fred Zinnemann 's strength as a director was less on the technical side and more in line with coaxing stellar performances out of his actors , and with this film , he drew a royal flush . So clear-eyed and three-dimensional that it makes the recent Pearl Harbor look like a bunch of kids playing dress up . 	It has perhaps aged poorly , but this languidly paced WWII romance remains an iconic , well-acted film , featuring particularly strong performances from Burt Lancaster and Montgomery Clift .
armageddon In several shots , the poor , deprived , unskilled and timid folks of Europe , Asia and Africa pray for the brave Yanks to save their butts . That said , Armageddon is still good . Well , maybe good is n't the right word . It is very entertaining and even features ( gulp ) a female in a sort of important role . No one in his or her right mind is going to take this juggernaut explode-o-thon seriously , of course , but as far as popcorn-grubbing eye candy with deafening sound and plenty of cheeseball Aerosmith tuneage ( and progeny ) , it 's great fun . With a plot-free second half , it 's more a $ 140 million pizza-and-six-pack film than a worthy contender to action classics like Face/Off or Die Hard . Even worse is the wildly overrated Affleck , whose failings as an actor become glaringly obvious here . breathless and utterly brainless ... makes the similarly themed and much more sentimental 'Deep Impact ' look like 'Schindler 's List ' by comparison . It 's not gon na hurt ya , but it ai n't gon na help ya . The only compelling lure is the special effects , which are sometimes impressive , sometimes transparent , yet somehow always inadequate to the apocalyptic task at hand . An often loud , bright , irritating and occasionally intrusive film ... Do you ride rollercoasters for insight into your psyche ? NO . Do you see Armageddon to be lambasted with great special effects , & incredible acts of derring-do ? Yes , you do . 	Lovely to look at but about as intelligent as the asteroid that serves as the movie 's antagonist , Armageddon slickly sums up the cinematic legacies of producer Jerry Bruckheimer and director Michael Bay .
ida 2013 [ The ] screenplay is a model of economy , as precise as the lensing by Ryszard Lenczewski and Lukasz Zal , who often position their subjects at the bottom of the frame , emphasizing personal insignificance within the totalitarian machine . With her brassy , determined aunt , Ida sets off to find answers and discovers life beyond the convent walls in this leisurely but satisfying journey . Solemn , reverential and brief , Ida provides a thoughtful footnote to one of the most emotional chapters in human history . Life is full of strangeness . Ida offers up a quixotic glimpse at the human condition , and a diversion from the expected ... The result is an emotionally moving work which , without sentimentality , urges us to challenge our assumptions and reckon with hard truths . Lest the film sound like too much of a downer , be assured that Pawlikowski laces it with beauty and hope . Sometimes a film has you swooning from the very first frame , and Polish director Pawel Pawlikowski 's fifth narrative feature is one such film . Do n't adjust your set : the film is ( strikingly ) photographed in Bergman-esque shades of gray-and-white . As ascetic as you 'd expect of a film depicting country in the Soviet Communist orbit , yet featuring a young woman who in just a week 's time finds her life brightening for the first time . Set in an austere , almost abandoned Poland during the early 1960s , director Pawel Pawlikowski 's first feature made in his homeland is a spare , haunting piece of minimalism . 	Empathetically written , splendidly acted , and beautifully photographed , Ida finds director Pawel Pawlikowski revisiting his roots to powerful effect .
disturbia Guaranteed to get your inner high-schooler excited for the end of the semester . Has nowhere near the conceptual sophistication of Rear Window , where the protagonist 's absorption in what he 's watching mirrors the viewer 's . The problem with Disturbia is that for most of the film you 'll wish you were n't watching at all . ... a decent thriller that follows the genre pretty closely , although I wish it had n't concluded in such an obvious manner . Like its attractive leads , director DJ Caruso 's smart teen thriller may be self-conscious , but it is undeniably appealing , Disturbia is a pot luck of comedy , romance & suspense that offers a little something for everyone . Disturbia 's reworking of Rear Window for the YouTube generation is pretty nifty , drenching its tale of paranoid surveillance in the type of modern techno-gadgetry that 's helped transform privacy from a right into a luxury . Borrowing a page or two from of the Hitchcock classic Rear Window ( 1954 ) , this riveting psychological thriller for the Internet Age delivers as compelling a variation on the helpless voyeur theme as one might hope to find . Disturbia goes through the Hitchcockian motions with great skill and good humour - but among the many pleasures it has to offer its viewers , there are few real surprises . Caruso , a very visual director , serves up some surprises and scares , and he 's paced his movie briskly . You 're out of this disturbing suburbia before you know it , shaken and even stirred . Disturbia takes it 's time setting up the thrills and Shia LaBeouf actually acts like a high schooler . 	Aside from its clichd resolution , Disturbia is a tense , subtle thriller with a noteworthy performance from Shia LaBeouf .
10011003-crude while Berlinger allows the film to get a little too star-struck , spending less time with the winningly humble patchwork alliance doing the lawsuit 's hard work , Crude at least acknowledges the reason behind this shift Looking for another reason to leave your car at home ? Go see Crude . When well-meaning Trudie Styler , founder of Rainforest Foundation ( and Sting 's wife ) , comes on , even Farjardo 's convictions and Berlinger 's early scenes about native culture and ancestry get swept up amidst hubristic hubbub . Powerful and powerfully upsetting . A dynamic and dramatic documentary about the David vs. Goliath dimensions of the `` Amazon Chernobyl '' case where indigenous tribal groups are fighting the multinational corporation Chevron . Crude is remarkably clear-eyed in the way it shows how even people on the right side of a cause only succeed if they 're willing to play a little dirty . Although the real-life outcome may be known to some , Crude still , at its best , unfolds like a courtroom thriller . No film could convey all the complexities of the case -- what Crude does is air the plaintiffs ' claims and show the lawyers at work . A provocative , well-balanced , illuminating and thoroughly engrossing documentary . A heart-wrenching , alarming and brilliantly crafted documentary about Chevron 's desecration of the Ecuadorian Amazon , and the 27-billion dollar law suit in which indigenous peoples seek remediation and justice . 	Dynamic , tightly arranged , and deliberately provocative , Joe Berlinger 's Crude is a sobering , enraging wake-up call .
jonah a veggietales movie A fun-filled adventure story that is certain to keep kids on the edge of their seats while teaching them important life lessons . Theology aside , why put someone who ultimately does n't learn at the center of a kids ' story ? The animation is competent , and some of the gags are quite funny , but Jonah ... never shakes the oppressive , morally superior good-for-you quality that almost automatically accompanies didactic entertainment . One thing you have to give them credit for : The message of the movie is consistent with the messages espoused in the company 's previous video work . These veggies go down pretty easily . I 'm not generally a fan of vegetables but this batch is pretty cute . This animated retelling of the familiar Old Testament story is playful , high-spirited and unmistakably amusing . The pandering , sappy script misses ample opportunities for satire and never brims with enough material or ideas to sustain the picture 's 85-minute running time . When the movie concentrates on Jonah 's story , it is sweet and good fun . It 's a format that probably works best for an audience that is faith-based or very young , but for others it 's simply a pleasant opportunity for an occasional giggle at the folly of mankind and the underrated value of veggies . 	Jonah teaches wholesome messages to children in a funny , bouncy package .
joy ride A nice , nasty little B-movie that keeps things simple and keeps things scary . Climb into this rig and you 'll be sweating bullets . Will convince you that you 'd be better off taking the train . Builds an incredible amount of tension , then releases it with some startling violent encounters . Film is infused with John Dahl 's terrific sense of the macabre . A fun and scary film that 's worth checking out . Dahl 's takes a dive , a disappointing followup to his spicy 'Red Rock West ' and 'The Last Seduction . John Dahl 's Joy Ride is a hick thriller tailor-made for the Scream crowd . 98 minutes of pure , unadulterated exhilaration . The king of the road is Zahn , expertly steering his path between ironic goofball and real scared dude . 	A well-constructed B-movie thriller , Joy Ride keeps up the necessary level of tension and chills . Critics also liked Zahn 's performance as the goofball older brother .
lords of dogtown [ Hardwicke ] falls short in the hardest part of her job - pruning back Peralta 's unwieldy script to get to the heart of these boys ' unique bond as friends and competitors . They maintained their balance on dangerous skateboard stunts but wiped out the way anyone who has ever watched an epsiode of VH1 : Behind the Music knows all too well . A credible , handsome and engaging entertainment . ... a thoroughly dull piece of work . Demonstrates enough narrative style , grit and artistry to latch onto plenty of viewers with absolutely zero interest in skateboarding . Lords of Dogtown is a fictional feature that tries hard to mimic the sun-baked realism of the documentary that inspired it . But mimic is all it does . Reaches beyond the cinematic frame as far as it can to catch big air , giving its audience a you-are-there viscerality . Lords of Dogtown is nothing more than a steaming pile of dog crap . There 's great authenticity in the picture thanks to Catherine Hardwicke 's atmospheric direction and Stacy Peralta 's first-hand account of the era . It 's just unconventional enough , it has a heart and a rhythm , and it strives for greatness . 	Lords of Dogtown , while slickly made and edited , lacks the depth and entertaining value of the far superior documentary on the same subject , Dogtown and Z-Boys .
magic mike xxl Magic Mike XXL might be Channing Tatum 's greatest show of muscle yet . More akin to leaving your cares ( and possibly keys ) at the door , and diving in for some quick thrills . Undemanding , reasonably entertaining fun . Far less dark or subtle than MM , but far more boisterous , raunchy and exuberant , this is a movie that neon-lights the 'entertainment ' in 'male entertainment , ' even if it is n't much more than one last road-trip down memory lane . It 's one thing to linger on a scene and another to have it play so long there 's time to go to the lobby for a snack and get back before it ends . This is a story about high energy dancing presented at a half-speed pace . Magic Mike XXL leaves the drama behind and focuses on the fireworks and mishaps of the band of strippers . [ Full review in Spanish ] This sequel ... dares to include women in its worldview and dignify them with the wants and needs so long denied them in mainstream media . It 's cute and dirty , and baby , Magic Mike XXL knows what it 's doing . We 're always waiting for something important or interesting to happen , but it never really does . Magic Mike XXL made me want to be a male stripper . A crazy comedy with a very thin plot and no character progression . [ Full review in Spanish ] We could say that Magic Mike XXL is more than just a movie about a bunch of dudes getting naked , but it 's not . [ Full review in Spanish ] 	Magic Mike XXL has enough narrative thrust and beefy charm to deliver another helping of well-oiled entertainment , even if this sequel is n't quite as pleasurable as its predecessor .
good german It 's hard to feel for the characters ' fate when you 're counting the ways in which The Good German rips off Casablanca . Who says they do n't make 'em like they used to ? A classic noir film demands a classic noir story , and Paul Attanasio 's screenplay ( based on the Joseph Kanon novel ) just is n't up to the dark mark . Technically amazing , but not engaging enough to recommend as theater viewing unless you 're an arthouse freak . What should be a ripping good yarn , powered by high voltage stars , instead comes across as another of the director 's audacious but unsuccessful experiments -- a cinematic curio where form takes unfortunate precedence over narrative . There is n't a moment in this self-conscious , uninvolving movie when you are n't aware you are watching an experiment , which might make a good lesson for film school students on what not to do . The Good German is counterfeit coin in search of easy marks . The Good German plays like Soderbergh 's doctoral thesis for film school . But look past the honkingly loud geek factor , and it still works . There 's not much beyond self-conscious mise-en-scnes and a lead actor who is n't mysterious or magnetic as much as he 's simply aloof . There 's nothing going for the movie , really , except its ambition -- its heavily marred , totally unrealized ambition . 	Though Steven Soderbergh succeeds in emulating the glossy look of 1940s noirs , The Good German ultimately ends up as a self-conscious exercise in style that forgets to develop compelling characters .
ghost in the shell 2 innocence Gone is much of the bombast of the original ... Extraordinarily rich visually , with a density of detail that would have impressed Breughel or Veronese . Unplug from the narrative , let the images of Ghost in the Shell 2 : Innocence wash over you , and enjoy the beautiful ride . In this anime it 's a basset hound that brings the only bits of warmth . Pretty much impenetrable , but what makes it especially exhausting is a mountain of technical babble and long-winded philosophical reveries that slow everything down . It 's a feast of animation technology and styles , but weighed down by textbook dialogue and storytelling monotony that work against its expressive imagery . This is a bold film , that tries so hard to be intellectual and different , but ultimately ends up being too smart for it 's own good . Never less than spectacular . It seamlessly combines sophisticated hand-drawn animation with computer-rendered backgrounds . Unlike his American peers , Japanese writer-director Mamoru Oshii makes animated films that are as serious as a heart attack . With this beautiful , thought-provoking , adrenaline-fuelled film , Oshii heralds a truly post-human era in which all forms of 'life ' deserve our respect . 	The animation is lovely , but the plot is complex to the point of inscrutability , leaving Ghost in the Shell 2 : Innocence both original and numbing .
bronx tale It paints a fairly accurate and hard-hitting picture of the racial tensions of the times , but it still glamorizes the gangsters with too much love . De Niro proves to be just as much a force behind the camera as he does in front of it . A superb debut - a gripping movie . A superb directorial debut by DeNiro , a work that rivals Goodfellas . It 's the moralistic tenor of A Bronx Tale that 's ultimately most off-putting . A wonderful , touching tale about growing up and making decisions . Beautiful story Average effort . De Niro 's first trip behind the camera proves that he 's been doing his homework . This is a masterful debut , and a great film altogether . De Niro 's feature directorial debut is not a second-tier Scorsese film . Though telling a familiar coming-of-age story , it finds a new angle in depicting the irrational and subconscious origins of racism . 	A Bronx Tale sets itself apart from other coming-of-age dramas thanks to a solid script , a terrific cast , and director Robert De Niro 's sensitive work behind the camera .
vicky cristina barcelona Vicky Cristina Barcelona does n't feel like your standard Woody Allen comedy . And that 's just one reason why it 's such a joy to behold . The magnificent acting ensemble alone is worth the price of admission . Despite the big budget and name stars , Vicky Cristina Barcelona shows Allen 's 98th film stumbling into mumblecore , fumbling with love and class like a spoiled brat who 's never seen a Rohmer , Malle , Renoir or Ophuls masterpiece . Slight , disposable but entertaining . Vicky Cristina Barcelona is an awful lot better than anything in his thankfully short `` British '' period . For a romance in which nobody seems to end up getting what they want , it 's deceptively satisfying , and leaves you with a sense of hope , however false . The sort of film Eric Rohmer might make if he were ever in a chipper mood : sincere , delicately funny , a little staid , a little precious , and more interested in the ebb and flow of the heart than in the dubious rewards of sensational narrative twists . Likable , beautifully acted , scenic and sexy . Is n't up to Allen 's old school or new school standards . But it 's pretty . And it shows , again , if you let Penelope Cruz speak Spanish instead of forcing her through English , her presence will darn near suck the film right out of the camera . Sex is usually an intellectual endeavor for Woody Allen , but this cast forces him - and us - to get out of our heads . Retains expected performance momentum , and positively sells the hell out of a lusty Spanish vacation . 	A beguiling tragicomedy , Vicky Cristina Barcelona charms with beautiful views of the Spanish city and a marvelously well-matched cast .
omen Adding Mia Farrow to the cast was a stroke of genius Gratuitous evil plus creepy kid equals scary fun . It 's hard to imagine college age movie goers being attracted by such a pass premise . And fans of the original will end up doing shot-by-shot comparisons . On every level , The Omen is n't just bad filmmaking , it 's bad storytelling . It 's so similar to the original that we already know what 's coming . And because it adheres so closely , it only serves as a reminder of the superiority of Richard Donner 's original . This version of The Omen comes prepackaged , nearly identical to the original , and as such , it is unnecessary . When all else fails , pump up the thunder and lightning . That seems to be an operating principle behind the supremely unnecessary remake of the 1976 horror fest . The Omen is , at last , about Kate , the mother who distrusts her child and should n't trust her husband . She does n't have a chance . It 's like hearing a great cover version of a classic rock song . They do such a great job . The art direction is gorgeous in this in its own haunting way . There seems to be little reason for its existence - except to take advantage of the calendar anomaly of June 6 , 2006 ( 6/6/06 ) . Expected to be disappointed after having been so scared by the original , I was pleased to find the antichrist plot device to be new and exciting again . 	Even with the force of a `` classic '' behind it , remake fever ca n't hold up the hollowness of this style-drenched Omen .
casper A hollow and garish echo of the sweet little ghost . Without the talent of Ricci , Casper would have been a truly barren motion picture . As it is , it 's still not very good . The high-tech animation is completely persuasive ; nothing else is . The movie is downright sappy . This does n't usually happen to me , but 15 minutes before the end of Casper I suddenly realized that if I did n't take a deep breath , I was going to start sobbing . Nice kid 's story . Good efects . Who would say that this innocent girl will become a sensual actrees ... Haunted house tale not as mild as the cartoons . It 's not clear why Steven Spielberg 's Amblin decided to make a live-action entertainment starring the least interesting and most saccharine of all 50s cartoon characters . The horror , the horror . It 's a good family movie . 	A meandering , mindless family movie that frequently resorts to special effects and transparent sappiness .
1098038-shaft The film seems to be driven only by blind anger , seriously diminishing the fun factor . It 's always a pleasure to meet a man who really enjoys his job . The potency of [ Jackson 's ] performance is almost enough to save this Y2K update of the black private dick from erectile dysfunction , but not quite . Jackson strives mightily to unify the story , but the job is too much for him . Once again a studio action movie went before the camera before the script was ready . To paraphrase the title song , that Shaft is one bad ... movie . Shaft is a parody of itself but does n't even realize it . Whenever he [ Jackson ] is n't on the screen -- which is n't much -- the movie flags . [ Covers ] too many bases . All concept and no meaning . If nothing else , Shaft is spicy fast food . 	With a charismatic lead , this new Shaft knows how to push the right buttons .
1133964-king arthur There 's serious intent here , but an often thudding execution . Ran two hours , felt like three , could have easily been one , and features no less of a videogame-type plot than mothersucking Van Helsing . The fresh historical setup is intriguing early on and a pivotal battle on a cracking frozen river generates some memorable suspense , but the film loses most of its momentum in its emotionally flat second half . King Arthur may be far closer to the facts than anything in Le Morte D'Arthur -- and far grittier than Hollywood 's old Knights of the Round Table or The Sword in the Stone . But there 's nothing true in it at all . It starts out Robin Hood and ends up Braveheart , but mostly it just makes you just want to watch Gladiator again . A grunting re-make of Tears of the Sun , the last movie from the same director , with villains wearing Conan the Barbarian-style furs instead of jungle fatigues . Underrated , revisionist version of the Camelot legend ; one of the year 's 10 best After a while , [ the film ] leaves nothing to register but entwined limbs and falling ash . Who cares about the toying of a sacred legend ? This film works on it 's own merits . One sexy woman showing off her stomach does not a movie make , although , it does n't hurt . 	The magic is gone , leaving a dreary , generic action movie .
1016513-poltergeist Poltergeist is like a thoroughly enjoyable nightmare , one that you know that you can always wake up from , and one in which , at the end , no one has permanently been damaged . It 's also witty in a fashion that Alfred Hitchcock might have appreciated . A surprisingly yet successfully restrained lesson in how to haunt a house . It 's a highly effective and uncommonly emotional horror film , and in the summer of 1982 , I preferred it to Spielberg 's more universally admired E.T . `` Poltergeist '' is a lot more dedicated to its cause than most viewers today are probably used to . It builds to something of value . That may not make it the most profound film of its genre by any stretch , but it does make it one of the most memorable . A classic horror film that still thrills . Hooper 's skill with gore combined with Spielberg 's ability to sanitize anything into family-friendliness makes Poltergeist a smash horror hit -- and it 's rated PG . Hooper 's direction may lack its usual edgy personality -- apparently over-ruled by Spielberg 's script suggestions -- but he puts on a dazzling show , and the intuitive performances are uniformly on the panic button . It is consistently redeemed by its creator 's dazzling sense of craft . J'aurais prfr voir quelque chose de plus sombre et de plus srieux . Dommage . Poltergeist ( 1982 ) is a memorable supernatural horror film from co-producer/co-writer Steven Spielberg and director Tobe Hopper.. 	Smartly filmed , tightly scripted , and -- most importantly -- consistently frightening , Poltergeist is a modern horror classic .
1083791-funny games A sort of Austrian art-house Cape Fear by way of the new Cinema of Cruelty . Alternately infuriating and harrowing , Michael Haneke 's Funny Games is a potent piece of shock cinema that thrives on making the audience uncomfortable . As a metaphysical experiment in sadism , Funny Games is endorsed by negative responses . Brilliant , radical , provocative , it 's a masterpiece that is at times barely watchable . Haneke 's film does n't invite audience exploration ; it pummels them with preordained conclusions . Haneke has rational reasons for his movie 's violence , but he still crosses lines more often than he justifies crossing them . This beautifully acted and paced German variant of Cape Fear ... is tricked out with a number of Brechtian devices to catch audiences in a voyeuristic trance . ... one sequence featuring the manipulation of time by a character undermines everything that came before it ... Haneke 's snooty admonishments are disturbing because they 're never self-critical . The film outstays its welcome and is more than a little too knowing in its manipulation of standard audience expectations for the genre . 	Violent images and blunt audience provocation make up this nihilistic experiment from one of cinema 's more difficult filmmakers .
1070992-primal fear Consistently entertaining , a fantastic cast , and , most importantly , the film debut of two-time Oscar nominee Edward Norton Works quite well as a mystery and as a courtroom drama . Bad movie , but Norton 's performance makes it worth watching . O filme tem , no elenco , sua maior arma . its heroes only heroes because they believe in order and not because they 're capable of order 's championing or restoration . Exhibits many of the genre 's common weaknesses , but the fine acting of Edward Norton , Laura Linney and Richard Gere enables us to forgive them . An unfolding mystery in which truth is elusive , and twists are the order of the day ... gives Norton a career-making opportunity to strut his stuff . [ Blu-ray ] The plot is engaging , the cast is exceptional , and Hoblit moves things along in commendably straightforward fashion . Very entertaining . Edward Norton became an instant star after making a splashy , Oscar-nominated performance in this well-executed horror thriller . Unfortunately , Primal Fear has n't aged well ; there are wrinkles and pockmarks all over its face . 	A straightforward , entertaining thriller with a crackerjack performance by Edward Norton .
serendipity Klein 's script is at once too airy-fairy and pandering to deliver the charm . Does romantic comedy have to come off as sugared stupidity ? It does here . In some ways , `` Serendipity '' could be the movie Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan forgot to make 10 years ago . Not since `` Sleepless in Seattle '' has there been so much onscreen discussion about soulmates and the mystical power of fate . An exercise in the contrived and the overcalculated . The movie forces these two together without ever explaining why they should be together -- except that their faces are on the movie poster . A qumica entre Cusack e Beckinsale eficaz - pena que , durante a maior parte do tempo , os dois sejam mantidos separados pelo fraco e previsvel roteiro de Marc Klein . Fluffy and innocuous as Cool Whip , it is nonetheless uplifting , romantic and delightful , further enhancing the world 's enduring love affair with the Big Apple . Pure cotton candy : It fills you with instant delight then is gone moments after the final image fades from the screen . I ca n't get over the complete reliance on fate even if it is what the movie is all about . If you 're willing to take a trip to Romantic Comedyland ... 	Light and charming , Serendipity could benefit from less contrivances .
the way way back Overall , there is a sweetness to the film , most of it stemming from Liam James . He carries the film , zombie-like at first , but ably once his character comes slowly alive . This film 's masterstroke is showing everything from Duncan 's point of view , without the traditional cloying narration . The clever script keeps things moving , even if it remains uninterested in the two people who seem to be suffering the most ... Feels familiar , but in a good way , like a comfortably rumpled beach house you 're happy to return to year after year . A coming-of-age drama that manages some genuinely surprising turns despite the formulaic road it travels . With a double dose of Rockwell - Norman and Sam - it 's a picture-perfect portrait of what summer - and summer movies - ought to be . The sometimes airy , sometimes claustrophobic ambiance fills you with the same bittersweet feeling as spinning a half-forgotten Golden Oldie at a backyard cookout . A mediocre , subpar version of a movie that we 've seen many times before . A strong ensemble cast deliver exceptionally fine performances , taking to Faxon and Rash 's script like the scrumptious made for thespian buffet that it is . Carell 's character is certainly a darker one than we 've seen from him before , and that may be a tough sell for audiences used to the actor playing sunnier types . 	Despite its familiar themes , The Way Way Back makes use of its talented cast , finely tuned script , and an abundance of charm to deliver a funny and satisfying coming-of-age story .
pirate radio This Rock 'n ' Roll love letter comes across as an overlong , jumbled mess of a film that has trouble finding both its voice and its focus . ... [ it ] will have you humming along and leave you with a big smile , something that can be said of few movies this year . The movie is boisterous , sentimental and worryingly deficient in laughs for a worryingly large amount of the time . Pirate Radio is a ribald , rocking romp . Dramamine not necessary . For a script that relies more on character-driven than situational comedy , it 's the perfs that count , and these are thankfully strong . A mix-tape of successes and failures , perhaps too light for its subject , but a silly , easy watch . It is an immensely likeable affair but it does feel more like a string of amusing anecdotes rather than a film of any substance . No quote available . It 's extremely episodic , and while the individual episodes are often a lot of fun ... one walks away with little but classic rock earworms . Any serious music fan -- that is anyone who sees the radio pirates as kindred spirits -- will be outraged by its sloppy approach to the history of rock and roll . 	The good cast and rollicking soundtrack eventually drown when this comic homage to pirate radio loses its quippy steam .
never die alone DMX is vengeful , mean , and ruthless . [ A ] ll flashy visual angst and , despite its literary pretensions , utterly inconsequential , if bloated with a fervent desire to be seen as Art . Never Die Alone is [ Dickerson 's ] best work to date , with the complexity of serious fiction and the nerve to start dark and stay dark , to follow the logic of its story right down to its inevitable end . Never Die Alone is urban exploitation so badly written it sacrifices any claim to authenticity , with performances so uniformly awful it could be a meeting of Bad Actors Anonymous . Moral scolds will undoubtedly decry this as just another violent rap movie , but much like that Jesus flick they 're all digging , this ... shows the harsh consequences of sin A hackneyed tale of vengeance set in the 'hood , teeming with stock characters , slo-mo gunplay , and rampant misogyny . Violent movie starring rapper DMX is not for kids . You 'll need all the body armor you can muster for Ernest Dickerson 's bruising film noir , which works up more momentum and urgency in any one of its 82 minutes than most crime dramas do in their entirety . Loses all credibility every time Arquette appears on screen . Arquette does what he can with his pitiful character . But the longer Paul drifts , the longer we find it hard to believe that he 's still alive . In fact , we 're kind of sorry he 's still alive . The movie would be much better without him . 	DMX 's menacing charisma is put to good use in this stylish but hackneyed modern-day noir .
rain man It has a heart as good as Raymond 's own , which is more than a lot of Hollywood movies can say for themselves at the moment . While everyone remembers this film about an autistic man as Dustin Hoffman 's Oscar-winning triumph , it is equally Tom Cruise 's . powerful and evocative Under Barry Levinson 's astringent direction , Hoffman and Cruise evoke honestly earned emotions . Do n't pass on this wonderfully funny and touching movie . There 's magic in it . Never gets dated . Never gets old . A timeless film about the power of family . It 's an honorable effort , touched by a certain lightness and grace . The best films are those that manage to generate emotion in their audience without ever feeling phony or melodramatic . Rain Man does exactly that . Of course , it 's annoying . But it 's also funny , touching and true , striking chords without ever reducing Raymond to a performing puppy . Definitely . Rain Man is so fascinating because it refuses to supply those questions with sentimental but unrealistic answers . There is no story , no motor , and given the nature of the premise , nothing much can happen . 	This road-trip movie about an autistic savant and his callow brother is far from seamless , but Barry Levinson 's direction is impressive , and strong performances from Tom Cruise and Dustin Hoffman add to its appeal .
barbarella ... like a lot of truly terrible things from the '60s , Barbarella has acquired the patina of the cult classic , which means that as the cultural context has changed we are able to enjoy it for reasons other than those intended by the filmmakers A nutty film that boasts at times beautiful photography of some cheap but truly epic sets of PVC and everything that clings . I just could n't take my eyes off the screen . Not that the film itself is n't funny , it most definitely is , but it is a formless mass of crazy one-liners and ridiculous situations . Clearly inspired by 1960s Batmania , the hunka hunka burning camp that is Barbarella adapted French science-fiction comic books into gleefully oversexed cinematic pop art . [ Blu-ray ] `` Barbarella '' is the 1968 sci-fi that made Jane Fonda a household name . The opening credits feature a striptease that takes Fonda from a cumbersome space suit to her birthday suit . Her sex kitten looks were enough to drive young men crazy . It 's not a film that tries to break barriers or provide deep and meaningful commentary on the nature and meaning of life -- it 's a film which sets out to entertain and does so with considerable panache . What more do you need to know ? Roger Vadim 's ultra-kitsch sci-fi classic somehow improves with age . Most of this is soft-core nonsense , but snappy dialogue and design -- as well as the striptease routine that Fonda performs behind the opening credits -- have made it something of a cult favorite . Throughout the movie , there is the assumption that just mentioning a thing ( sex , politics , religion ) makes it funny and that mentioning it in some offensive context makes it funnier . 	Unevenly paced and thoroughly cheesy , Barbarella is nonetheless full of humor , entertaining visuals , and Jane Fonda 's sex appeal .
the music never stopped Skews to fantasy over fact , but when it blinks at you with those puppy-dog eyes , just see if you do n't sniffle . The film does manage to transcend its disease-of-the-week trappings and fall squarely between TV-movie and Oscar-baiting . A rather solid father/son tale as their relationship becomes a very moving center . The songs and a couple of strong performances are only good enough to make the film watchable , not exceptional . A medley of `` Memento , '' `` The King 's Speech '' and `` Hair , '' `` The Music Never Stopped '' is sentimental pop packaged as a profound rock opera . Simmons 's talents carry the film , elevating the work of his fellow actors . It 's sentimental , yet so honest and eccentric that it rises above schmaltz . Lots of good music but the picture flirts with Hallmark Hall of Fame feel-goodism . This sentimental father and son tale adapted from an Oliver Sacks essay by Gwyn Lurie and Gary Marks plays it altogether too genteelly for the turbulent times it depicts . Director Jim Kohlberg misses a few beats , but more amplitude would have been appreciated . It 's really for anybody who loves their music -- whatever that music is -- so much that hearing it is enough to transport them to another time and place . 	An involving , if sentimental and predictable family drama elevated by J.K. Simmons ' sympathetic lead performance .
tulpan I have learned to be suspicious of films which seem to romanticise nomadic life , but this one does n't . It 's a winner . [ A ] beautiful and moving tale of life among the shepherds working the Kazakh steppe . Uma obra absolutamente mgica . Russian director Sergei Dvortsevoy 's funny , fascinating , utterly unclassifiable film Tulpan is ethnographic filmmaking without the preaching . A coming-of-age story that also examines the pull and push of the modern and traditional , Tulpan is a striking , unique , narrative feature debut for director-writer Sergei Dvortsevoy . A mesmerising cinema experience . With Tulpan , his first feature film , Kazakhstani director Sergei Dvortsevoy has crafted a sweetly gentle story about life in this barren place . There 's no room for mush in filmmaker Sergey Dvortsevoy 's triumphant , intimate drama , not when the necessities of daily life are so elemental , and so tenderly observed . For all that hard work and unrequited love , Tulpan is also very funny . The latest import from the steppes of the former Soviet empire is Tulpan , a bittersweet slice of life with a sweet center . 	Kazakh sheep herders get their cinematic due in this lovely , unsentimental debut from director Sergei Dvortsevoy .
30 days of night Here is one of those rare movies that penetrates the membrane separating all those disposable `` gotcha '' scarefests from genuinely engrossing supernatural thrillers . The premise is slightly intriguing , but the execution is blander than Josh Hartnett 's screen presence . The same conflict over and over is not frightening . Once it collapses under the weight of its own preposterousness and lack of suspense , it does n't matter how many cool-looking vampires screech like feral beasts- the movie has already lost all its blood . This is a gory , nasty movie that never gives its characters or its audience a moment 's rest . The rare horror film that actually lives up to its potential . Bleak , bombastic and belligerent , Slade 's blood-busting bohemians will indeed take a caustic chunk out of your imaginative horrifying souls . You may not believe there 's any more blood to suck from the shriveled corpse of the vampire movie , but you 'd be wrong . David Slade has n't revolutionized the vampire genre , but he may make you wet your pants . 30 Days Of Night strikes out a nerve-jangling , bloodily unpredictable route to a truly stunning ending that 's well worth the wait . It 's clear the film script has gone through the standard Hollywood death-of-a-thousand-rewrites wringer to emerge as shadow of its former self , drained of much of its creative synergy . 	While 30 Days of Night offers a few thrills , it ultimately succumbs to erratic execution .
elaine stritch shoot me 2013 This film works as both a show business historical documentary and a fitting tribute to the late , great Broadway legend , Elaine Stritch . Sensationally entertaining . Every would-be director of a celebrity biography should be required to watch Chiemi Karasawa 's delightful example . This is a must-see for anyone who loves theater , acting and especially individuals like Elaine Stritch unafraid to bare their souls -- so all of us can gain more insight into the complicated essence of the human condition . Chiemi Karasawa deserves all the credit in the world for the intimate and hilarious portrait that is Elaine Stritch : Shoot Me , a sparkling cocktail of music and memoir . On the other hand , she did n't exactly have to drag her subject out of her shell . A generous and hilarious portrait of life as an aging legend . There 's an impressive candor and depth to this documentary about the life and career of Stritch . I suppose it helps to have seen Stritch onstage to fully appreciate the bracing new documentary `` Elaine Stritch : Shoot Me , '' released by Sundance Selects . I wish I 'd seen more . The chief pleasures of Shoot Me-and there are many-come from watching Stritch navigate her day-to-day life . Shoot Me is precisely as dishy , vulnerable and moving as a biographical doc ought to be . 	Brutally honest and utterly compelling , Elaine Stritch : Shoot Me offers a riveting , vanity-free portrait of its legendary subject while offering a few essential truths about the human condition .
cheap thrills 2013 [ This movie ] is less about relationships , character development and moral questions about how far we 'd go to make money , and more , as the title says , about cheap thrills . Cheap , bloody , disturbingly funny thrills . A tense , knotty ( in more ways than one ) valentine of leaching amorality -- a satisfyingly warped walk on the wild side . [ A ] shock-value thriller . The `` worst day of your life '' premise is a well-worn one ... but seldom has it plumbed the depths of desperation and sadism the way Cheap Thrills does . Cheap Thrills is a film that works as entertainment first , but it offers up a vital and horrifying discussion of the growing division between the haves and the have nots , and as a glimpse of what could be , it is truly chilling . How you feel about it will depend on how much creative debasement you can stand to watch . class-conscious black comedy reveals the American dream to be both a gladiatorial bumfight and a dog 's dinner . A darkly twisted satire on a world in which the rich get richer and the poor are easy pickings for callous exploitation . For genre fans , Katz 's film will go down as a punchy and absorbing diversion , but it 's also an offer you can refuse to believe . A better film would have given you no choice . Comedies do n't get much more pitch-black than this fiendishly clever film , which will shift into horror for everyone in the audience , although that tipping point varies for each person . 	Gleefully nasty and darkly hilarious , Cheap Thrills lives down to its title in the best possible way .
water lilies Some scenes could 've been gratuitous were it not for the film 's cold restraint , but the slow pace bottles a sense of that age when time seems to stretch endlessly . With terrific poise and the crispest , cleanest cinematography imaginable , the 27-year-old French director Cline Sciamma has given us a very provocative and stylish drama set in the world of teenage girls ' synchronised swimming . Water Lilies is that rare film about female sexuality that is made for females to relate to , not for males to fantasize about . A hypnotic and wholly convincing look at teen culture from the inside , with all its courage , cruelty and unspoken codes of silence intact . Sciamma demonstrates the potential to make a truly erotic and interesting film . This just is n't it . Completing the convergence of rare young talents is the 27-year-old French director Cline Sciamma . Unfortunately , this is not a satire like Dr. Strangelove -- it 's a documentary in which talking heads spout pseudoscientific claptrap that comes across as all wet . The original French title of this flick translates as Birth of Octopuses , and it 's a more accurate description of the complicated relationships in this well-acted coming-of-age story , the impressive debut of filmmaker Cline Sciamma . If poetry is about finding the perfect words to say something , then movie poetry is about finding perfect images . And Water Lilies has several of them . For all its virtues as a coming-of-age study , it 's too slow , too single dimensional to create much of a stir beyond arthouse and hothouse interest . The close-ups of Acquart 's classic beauty are well worth the screen time , however . 	Water Lilies is a sharply-observed , provocative coming-of-age story that captures the anxieties of the early teen years .
citizenfour Poitras has made a personal film because there is no other option for this story . Her involvement changed her life , as it did the lives of her collaborators . The result is a masterful fusion of journalism and art . Did the NSA have foreknowledge that Citizenfour was going to win the Oscar ? Um , probably ... This is terrific documentary cinema . CITIZENFOUR is a documentary , an expos , a character study , a world-girdling espionage thriller , an oblique manifesto and a model of understatement . It 's also a great movie . Citizenfour plays like a thriller as it chronicles a complex and vitally important chapter in our history . The fascination of the documentary lies in the fact that Poitras was there with her camera at the crucial moments , when Snowden was sharing the information that would cause such convulsions all over the world . This is a complicated story , but it 's efficiently laid out by Poitras in this smartly edited project . Citizenfour ( named after Snowden 's codename of choice ) is paced like the great paranoid-man political thrillers of the 1970s ... Poitras makes this potentially-tedious exercise seem claustrophobic in the most enthralling way . It all sounds like prophecy now , given the way things turned out . A tapestry of escalating suspense . 	Part real-life thriller , part sobering examination of 21st century civil liberties , Citizenfour transcends ideology to offer riveting , must-see cinema .
murderous maids Ripped of her humanity , Testud 's Christine becomes a working stiff of Greek proportions . Made with spellbinding clarity and tact , shot near the actual locations by an uncompromising cinema realist , and featuring a near-perfect cast . What Denis ends up with is a delicate psychological portrait in which his grim determination to be restrained and sensitive is the major feature . Perhaps the most remarkable aspect of Murderous Maids is how restrained and sensitive French director Jean-Pierre Denis keeps his film . A sensitive , moving , brilliantly constructed work . Nearly 75 years after the fact , the matter still has n't given up all its secrets , but Denis ' film comes close to a definitive , deeply disturbing account . A chilling tale of one of the great crimes of 20th Century France : the murder of two rich women by their servants in 1933 . The dreamy , almost poetic nature is entrancing . Spare but quietly effective retelling . Murderous Maids has a lot going for it , not least the brilliant performances by Testud ... and Parmentier . 	A historical account that is equally disturbing and engrossing , with a powerful performance by Sylvie Testud .
cutie and the boxer As a documentary and a love story , Cutie and the Boxer is nothing short of breathtaking . There 's a nimbleness to the storytelling that always keeps you involved ... It 's not mushy but it is resonantly heartfelt . An affectionate portrait of a long marriage that doubles as a trenchant examination of the realities facing the working artist , Cutie And The Boxer is equally inspiring , funny and wise . Imparts glancing lessons about the uncertainty of love and the almost necessary dance of responsibility and care-taking involved . More than anything , the film expresses - at an almost subconscious level - the difficulties of discerning not only what real art is , but also what true love is all about . Viewed in its entirety , `` Cutie and the Boxer '' is more than a great documentary . It 's a great film . Equally heartbreaking and heartwarming . It 's one of the best love stories in years . It 's a touching film and a fascinating glimpse into one of those couples you ca n't quite believe are still together . The portrait of a marriage in full , rife with compromises , misunderstandings , angry moments and tender scenes filled with the affection amassed over four decades . The only way you 'll get a more intimate view of a marriage than the one in Cutie and the Boxer is if you 're in it and maybe not even then . Engaging , fly-on-the-wall documentary that paints an intriguing portrait of the artistic process and offers a fascinating glimpse into the workings of a 40 year old marriage , with all its attendant ups and downs . 	A beautifully-made documentary that explores the challenges and richness of both marriage and art through the lens of a fascinating and complex couple .
barbara 2012 The weird oppression and seediness of the times is elegantly captured , and Hoss coolly conveys Barbara 's highly strung desperation . Though the film runs a mere 105 minutes , it weighs on viewers like an eternity . Hoss gives a discreet , thought-provoking performance . An enthralling little gem . In short , the failures in storytelling detract from the film , despite its sensitivities , its subtleties and its final payoff of personal sacrifice . A well-observed , compelling , and evocative character piece , haunted by the ghosts of Germany 's recent past . For those who like this sort of hyper-controlled , hugely intelligent work , Barbara will be a must . A low-key , tenuous romance characterised by its sparse , deliberately paced storytelling . It 's one terrific film , as smart , thoughtful and emotionally involving as just about anything that 's out there . Barbara is Hoss ' fifth film with Petzold , and the movie rests on the depth and subtlety of their working relationship . 	Smart , solidly grafted , and thoroughly gripping , Barbara offers a deliberately paced , subtly powerful character study .
amandla a revolution in four part harmony There 's no inch of this movie that 's boring . Good music , disorganized documentary A fascinating and insightful film . If you 're not into this kind of music , Amandla ! is likely to be an extremely grating experience I was swaying in my seat and fighting down an enormous lump in my throat by the end of this tremendously moving film . Poignant archival shots punctuate the importance of these beautifully rendered freedom songs . It leaves you stirred and uplifted not only by its music but also by the determination and courage of the people who sang and danced it on the way to a freer life . While providing a total immersion in music and politics , its ultimate effect is a whirlwind of images and assertions that leave few lasting impressions . Viewers will leave Amandla ! moved by the music , impressed by the musicians and dubious about the possibility of political and social healing . A documentary that is as thoughtful and inspiring as the music it celebrates . 	The powerful singing in Amandla makes for an uplifting , compelling documentary .
a cat in paris Charming . We 'll be watching for what Feliciol and Gagnol deliver next . A slight story but delicately drawn with a feline , jazzy score . ... will delight adults as well as the children who are its target audience , A barely feature-length diversion that lacks the energy to grip younger viewers or the depth to impress adults , but it earns respect with its makers ' dedication to old-school craft . [ W ] hy does this children 's book of a film morph , after a delightful , beautifully observed , feline-biographical opening , into a gangster crime story ? It 's weird , is what it is . At a little over an hour , it 's a slight but visually charming adventure . Unoriginal and mired in bad jokes . A charming , visually sparkling Parisian fantasy with a dark edge . `` A Cat in Paris '' has a low-key charm and pleasurably laconic visual style . The old-fashioned 2D animation is a welcome change from the current 3D obsession . Charming . 	A Cat in Paris depicts a stylish , imaginative world with a wonderful soundtrack and Hitchcockian overtones .
goldeneye This is a nice , safe , Bond movie that is trying to please the masses . And it does work as a crowd pleaser . Not among the best Bond , but a solid debut for Brosnan and a worthy entry in the series . Brosnan is a stylish 007 , the action is fast and the overall result hugely entertaining . Execs at MGM/UA can rest easy : the Bond franchise has been successfully salvaged . Perhaps the best entry in the series since The Spy Who Loved Me . The exotic settings , fight scenes , and car chases are also good , and the supporting cast is admirable . Director Martin Campbell 's overtly theatrical action scenes are quick , coherent , and easy on the eyes . This is the best bond movie since On Her Majesty 's Secret Service . A bold attempt to reinvent the character itself , one that tied in with the post-cold war era . Pierce is fantastic Suffers the blahs . 	The first and best Pierce Brosnan Bond film , GoldenEye brings the series into a more modern context , and the result is a 007 entry that 's high-tech , action-packed , and urbane .
1010030-house of wax The plot is pure hokum from beginning to end , but throw the silver-tongued Vincent Price into any film as a tormented villain and you 've already won half the battle . An extremely effective `` unmasking '' scene at the climax ... stands as one of the great shock moments in horror cinema . The effects are done with playfulness , zest , and some imagination ( they range from a barker batting paddleballs in your face to a murderer leaping from the row in front of you ) , making this the most entertaining of the gimmick 3-Ds . De Toth brings off one classic sequence with Kirk fleeing through the gaslit streets pursued by a shadowy figure in a billowing cloak . Casting is competent , Vincent Price is capital as the No . 1 menace . Arguably the best of all 3-D movies . A more conventional and not as absorbing remake of Mystery of the Wax Museum ... One of the great horror classics . [ A ] glorious-looking slice of gothic horror , which also helped establish Vincent Price as a horror icon . Joyfully macabre . 	House of Wax is a 3-D horror delight that combines the atmospheric eerieness of the wax museum with the always chilling presence of Vincent Price .
10009075-moon Moon is an old-fashioned sci-fi movie in the best sense : far more psychological drama than space opera , dispensing with overweening CGI and loud flashy action sequences while harking back to subtler , more ideas-driven entries in the genre . One of those rare , intelligent , thought-provoking science fiction films that come along less often than a blue moon , but there are some problems with the narrative and the science . Moon entertains by posing a puzzle whose solution opens into disturbing existential truths and paradoxes . A smart futuristic tale , blending paranoia , drama and humour . A throwback to the relatively thoughtful , adult-oriented science-fiction films that briefly were in vogue in the late 1960s and 1970s . This eerie drama harks back to sci-fi movies of the late 60s and early 70s that explored inner as well as outer space . This is science fiction at its stimulating best . Moon is a gripping sci-fi tale , but also has a lot of heart and humanity . Directed with a sure hand by Duncan Jones , Moon is the anti-Transformers , a science fiction tale that owes as much to fiction as to science . Make no mistake : Jones is a uniquely exciting prospect , whose cerebral , creepy and riveting Moon carves out his own elevated flight path . 	Boosted by Sam Rockwell 's intense performance , Moon is a compelling work of science-fiction , and a promising debut from director Duncan Jones .
business of strangers With any luck , it should earn Ms. Channing an Oscar nomination and mark Mr. Stettner as an astute observer of cultural mores . It does at least float a few ideas worth discussing , and it 's kept interesting by the powerful performances of Channing and Stiles . It 's a pleasure to watch these two superb actresses circle and attack , conspire and conflict in the corporate shark tank . 'The Business of Strangers ' partners one of Hollywood 's most under-rated older actresses with arguably one of its most over-rated younger ones . Patrick Stettner 's female workplace drama has nowhere to go but down once its cards have been thrown down on the table Stiles 's character is finally too opaque , and the mind games she plays on Channing are n't clever or cruel enough to produce a satisfying denouement . A showcase for three diamond-solid actors . At 83 minutes the movie is without a wasted movement . Very darkly funny , commenting on the corporate world in ways that seem fresh and original . It has almost nothing to do with women ; it 's about men 's fantasies of women . 	The Business of Strangers showcases a complex , compelling performance by Channing . Her interactions and clashes with Stiles make for riveting viewing .
arthur christmas Arthur Christmas does something few Christmas family movies have done over the last several years : it makes them fun again . Kids will love it and adults will feel like kids while watching it . The holiday season is an emotional rollercoaster for many reasons and Arthur Christmas does a neat job of exploring many of them while still being both heart-warming and wonderfully entertaining Should spread plenty of joy this season but does n't break any new ground in Christmas-y cinematic concoctions . `` Arthur Christmas '' is sometimes a bit hectic in its execution , but overall it 's a fine addition to the pantheon of wacky cinematic speculation about how Santa gets the job done . Do n't go expecting a sequel , but do go expecting all the unforced festive spirit you could hope for . Good for a smile and a headache . This kind of thing can be disastrous in the wrong hands , but Arthur Christmas maintains a sharp wit that perfectly counterbalances its lovely ( and , by the end , fully earned ) holiday sentimentality . A great , big joy . Even if you 're a bit bah humbug , just delight in the supremely clever Aardman comedy . Here 's hoping this becomes another family Christmas classic deserves . A veddy British take on the `` monarchy '' of Santa , this is an inventive , sweet-natured adventure about the importance of delivering a gift to the one child who was missed by Santa . Deftly blends the sophisticated sensibility of Aardman with the slick spectacle of American animation . 	Aardman Animations broadens their humor a bit for Arthur Christmas , a clever and earnest holiday film with surprising emotional strength .
1012665-longest yard What saves it , aside from good performances by Burt Reynolds and a thundering herd of supporting grotesques , is , of all things , a tough , tiny nut of valid social criticism . It captures a genuine feeling of competition , even if the premise is more than a little preposterous . Pardon me if I was n't blown away by all its simplistic machinations and lighthearted appeal to one 's baser instincts . An outstanding action drama , combining the brutish excitement of football competition with the brutalities of contemporary prison life . Part prison film , part football film , this violent but outstanding comedy-drama by gifted action director Robert Aldrich explores the brutality inherent in both the American penal system and football . Better and rawer than any of the remakes . One of Robert Aldrich 's biggest hits , The Longest Yard ( 1974 ) combines his ferocious worldview with a new kind of rambunctious audience appeal ... If it ultimately descends into macho nonsense , then that 's all part of the fun . his movie does for football and good sportsmanship what Paul Newman 's Slapshot did for hockey . One of Reynold 's best roles and an agreeable comedy . 	Equal parts tough and funny , and led by a perfectly cast Burt Reynolds , The Longest Yard has an interesting political subtext and an excellent climax -- even if it takes too long to get there .
our children 2012 Those of us who are forever citing Nicole Kidman 's tear-stained close-up in Birth as the ultimate example of wordless acting will now have to update our reference points . It 's a quiet , immaculately acted study of appalling cruelty committed unconsciously by those who believe they 're acting in the best interest of others . It 's an interesting way to tell a story and a devastating journey , particularly since it 's based on a real-life incident . The title can refer to the children whose tragic death the film is based on but more subtly on the dependency of Mounir , a North African , on his adoptive father and that of the wife on Mounir . There is no whodunit here -- the horror is plain in the opening shots -- and the how is presented with great restraint , but the why remains veiled and mysterious long after the film has ended . With Our Children , Joachim Lafosse seems hellbent on avoiding any hint of sensationalism . Suffice to say that pathos is intertwined with pathology in Lafosse 's fifth feature , inspired by a true story-but Murielle 's decline is n't any less full of tough home truths . This is masterful , unsettling filmmaking that moves us deeply . It also has the power to save lives . Through Lafosse 's vivid lensing and framing , Our Children exerts a steely grip . Yet the film remains restrained , detached and balanced ... Our Children is n't simply a story of a mother with post-natal depression . It 's much more oblique , and , like any family , complicated than that . 	A wrenching , quietly violent psychodrama , Our Children has the courage to ask difficult questions , and the strength to leave the answers to the viewer .
poohs heffalump movie Making this your kids ' first Pooh experience would be like weaning them on New Coke . A perfectly marvelous matinee option for young children . Neither the life lesson on tolerance nor Carly Simon 's treacly songs can weigh down the bouncy fun of this colorful and kid-friendly adventure . A cute little cartoon that ought to please very young children . In contrast to Tigger and Piglet , Lumpy offers fewer incentives to take a trip to the theatre to make his acquaintance . For families with small children , this one 's honey in the bank . Heffalump is a film of small charms , but what delights are there sound out loudly in today 's depressing kid film marketplace . Comfort food for the family : a winning , frequently funny tale of love , camarederie and understanding set in a visual universe as arresting as it is idyllic . Lessons are duly learnt about fear of the unknown , and it 's a sweet enough tale , if lacking in tension . Newcomer Kyle Stanger , who was just five when the movie was made , gives Lumpy so much personality and charm that every child will want a heffalump playmate of of his own . 	A charming and delightful walk through the Hundred Acres Woods for young viewers .
10005178-saint ralph Writer-director Michael McGowan proves there 's a reason people keep making underdog sports movies . A charmer with heart . The heart of the film and ensemble , however , is Adam Butcher . If there 's any justice , this guy could have a hell of a career . Highly recommended . Michael McGowan 's conventionally heartwarming underdog drama does n't miss a cliche on the eccentric troublemaker 's rocky road to sainthood . It 's as if Max Fischer from Rushmore turned , mid-movie , into Billy Elliot . McGowan 's film is n't just about following this boy 's private quest to accomplish the impossible . It is also about how he affects the other characters in the film . As predictably uplifting movies go , Saint Ralph is n't completely charmless . I feel guilty criticizing it because it 's about a kid running a marathon to save his mom from dying of cancer . CANCER , for crying out loud ! What am I supposed to do with that ? It 's all very cute and predictable . Still it 's a fun movie ... It 's a heartwarming film that celebrates the healing power of innocence and faith . 	Saint Ralph is an amiable tear-jerker that walks a fine line between being inspirational and being hokum .
once upon a time in the west Leone 's film , authentic yet hyper-stylised , complete with the coolest cowboy fashion ( gunslingers in long coats has never been bettered ) , mainstreet shootouts and raw , memorable characters , is a tough , leathery sundried masterpiece . There is something touching and maniacal about the two-and-three-quarter- hour result . When West is jumping , it 's impossible to turn away . A kick-ass flick . One of the pinnacles of world cinema . Sergio Leone loaded up for another Spaghetti Western and shot out his magnum opus with this follow-up to the Dollars trilogy . Charles Bronson stars as an ominous stranger known only as Harmonica -- on the account of that instrument being the only other th One of the greatest face movies ever made . For a lesson in how to resuscitate a dying genre , you could do worse than Once Upon a Time in the West , Sergio Leone 's masterpiece from 1968 . The movie stretches on for nearly three hours , with intermission , and provides two false alarms before it finally ends . If only the first 10 minutes of Sergio Leone 's Once Upon a Time in the West still existed , this most hyperbolic of oat operas would still be acknowledged as one of the genre 's greatest exhumations . 	A landmark Sergio Leone spaghetti western masterpiece featuring a classic Morricone score .
worlds fastest indian The film may be cutesy-poo for some tastes , and there is n't much nail-chewing suspense in Burt 's pursuit or his lighthearted subjugation of everyone he meets . But man and `` motor-sickle '' sneaked up and beguiled me , so all I could do was hop on . The World 's Fastest Indian is a movie about an old coot and his motorcycle , yes , but it is also about a kind of heroism that has gone out of style . These days , when movies often fatuously exploit youth and condescend to age , it 's refreshing to see something like Roger Donaldson 's picaresque action movie The World 's Fastest Indian . It takes a while to adjust to this amiable film 's languorous tempo but you might find it 's worth the wait . Hopkins resists his inclination to overplay and turns out one of his most endearing performances in years . The film is itself an offering to the god of speed , but much more besides . I imagine a double feature of this and Glory Road could even make Chuck Norris cry Parts of it are enjoyably shaggy , and Hopkins is very endearing . Without apology , Munro 's story has been embellished and romanticized right to the edge of cornball , where it manages to make a hairpin turn and restore its balance . A crowdpleaser with some pacing issues . 	Overcomes its formulaic storyline thanks to Anthony Hopkins ' warm and endearing portrayal of an age-defying thrill seeker .
tape The murky visuals are an apt match for the squalid setting and narrative ambiguities . The question that comes to the viewer 's mind is : Who cares ? Easily , one of the best pictures of 2001 . Worth watching , even if it never transcends its self-imposed limitations . A film , which , for all its energy , never quite sparks into life . A quick-paced , visceral and smartly acted psychodrama . A testament to why blockbuster junkies like me should turn off the Dolby digital and turn on the IFC every now and then . For the most part , Tape is smart and deftly executed , with Hawke , in particular , as the resentful Vince , making a vivid impression . Steeped in venom , deception , and manipulation , Tape is a three-way volley of mind games in which an adolescent grudge assumes the complexion of a festering wound . Fascinating and engrossing character study with strong performances from the cast ... 	Taking place in a hotel room , Tape has the feel of a play , but its engrossing psychodrama allows its stars to shine .
hulk No better than the much cheaper old-school Hulk TV show with Lou Ferrigno in green body paint . The spectacular special effects and Lee 's use of split screens provide some relief in a nonetheless tedious tale in which Nick Nolte ( looking much like his recent mug shot ) provides several unintentional laughs as Banner 's father . Despite the Hulk 's destructive combat with advanced military machines , the real war seems to be between the human story Lee tries so hard to create and the studio 's thirst for action to satisfy their youth market . Ang Lee 's treatment is deadly serious , but a lack of winking humor is appropriate in the case of this dark heroic tale , and the action sequences are riveting , thrilling and cathartic . This is a superhero movie that really captures the essence of comic book pop art . What 's good about Lee 's movie is n't just good , it 's great . It 's just unfortunate that the the film as a whole ca n't live up to that greatness . Lee 's talents , though vast and subtle , are not suited to the material , and his endless quest to find meaning gets in the way of what we all want to see . A thinking person 's movie with precious little for anyone to think about , except for a green giant smashing things . Ang Lee has boldly taken the broad outlines of a comic book story and transformed them to his own purposes ; this is a comic book movie for people who would n't be caught dead at a comic book movie . ... a melancholy film . 	While Ang Lee 's ambitious film earns marks for style and an attempt at dramatic depth , there 's ultimately too much talking and not enough smashing .
9400 leslie and robby kickin it old school ... an enduring best-of-breed favorite , a CinemaScope spectacle that 's terrifically entertaining , smartly written , memorably cast , briskly paced , and production-designed to the hilt . Imaginative gadgets galore , plus plenty of suspense and thrills , make the production a top offering in the space travel category . ... despite the rather silly tone it sometimes strikes , the film delves into some intelligent issues . Offers some of the most amusing creatures conceived since the Keystone cops . The strictly formulaic direction and by-the-numbers script , however , leach any true drama or humanity out of the bulk of the film . [ A ] nifty interstellar meller . There 's a reason this film is called the granddaddy of all science fiction . The tragicomic tone would have done the Bard proud , and at even only 98 minutes , Forbidden Planet is positively epic . Some of the special effects ( revolutionary for its time ) may look tacky by today 's standards but its intelligent storyline makes up for it . 	Shakespeare gets the deluxe space treatment in Forbidden Planet , an adaptation of The Tempest with impressive sets and seamless special effects .
saving face Pleasant if sketchy . This culture-clash , generation-gap comic drama is clichd and corny . But it 's also charming . Wu , who wrote and directed the movie , has put together an enjoyable film that combines elements of the romantic-comedy and Asian-American generational conflict saga to nice effect . Enlivened throughout by the director 's ability to document her native community 's unique quirks without ever quite falling into Greek Wedding grotesquery . There is n't much original about `` Saving Face , '' except for Joan Chen 's performance as Ma and a nice look into Chinese American life . Abjectly collapses into feel-good nonsense . Thought provoking and brimming with charm ... with an infectious sense of humor and outstanding performances . As a sweet comedy , it 's enjoyable enough , as long as you do n't expect it to carry the burden of an entire ethnic or sexual community on its shoulders . The film is simultaneously sweet natured and sharply observed , and if love eventually conquers all , it takes its own sweet time doing it . By the end of the movie 's hour-and-a-half , Wu 's carefully tied up all loose ends and dutifully swept away any questions . It 's a tidy little film , and her mother and mentors must be proud . 	A charming tale of a love affair that overcomes cultural taboos .
tears of the sun The film may have been inspired by The Seachers , but it 's worlds away from John Wayne . An action film with more than just action . It deals with serious , substantial , contemporary political and moral issues . The film is a completely mirthless affair . But to its credit , it never turns into the numbing shrapnel-fest of a `` Black Hawk Down '' , either . Just in time for the U.S. invasion of Iraq comes 'Tears of the Sun , ' a glossy but fraudulent promotion for America 's revived role as global policeman . Fuqua desires to do more , but he has n't developed the skill to incorporate moral and ethical themes into his stories . Tears is efficient and gets the job done -- but there 's not much personality on display . Just when the viewer thinks `` this is just another typical Bruce Willis character '' - Willis quietly and slowly begins to transform himself into much more than a simple box office hero Deserves the bad reviews and the lackluster earnings it has accumulated thus far . Fuqua has a fairly conventional script for a war team film , but his feeling for the thick landscape and the people within it has moral thrust . The film is a strictly no-bull proposition . 	Tries to be high-minded , but in the end , it 's just a stylish action movie .
sweet and lowdown A pleasant film . It 's sweet and low down on my list of Allen favorites , but worth seeing for Penn 's performance . The jazz is certainly here , but the passion is missing . Pleasant enough but not exactly compelling . A snappy , loose-limbed performance from Penn . The only reason to see this film is for the acting . The atmosphere , combined with Sweet and Lowdown 's entertaining momentum and zippy jazz score , makes it easy for you to get swept away for 90 minutes of great jazz and good fun . Woody Allen 's fictionalized biography of a legendary American jazz guitarist set in the 1930s . Definitely worth a viewing . I 'm not a big Woody Allen fan , but this is a good one . If you are n't sure you like jazz , see this movie just to be exposed to the Django sound ! Your next trip might be to the record store . 	Critics praise Woody Allen 's Sweet and Lowdown for its charming , light-hearted comedy and quality acting .
kitchen stories Do n't expect a profound dish . Do prepare for a light meal with enough oddball humor to maintain involvement . uniquely eccentric Hamer 's pacing is poky , and the 'well , duh ' moral ... hits the audience well before it is revealed to the characters . Kitchen Stories is an inventive and engaging drama about how our hearts are gladdened by the sweet surprises of unexpected intimacies . Though there 's a melancholy mood to much of the film , it leaves an audience happy -- as if we , like Folke and Isak , have made a new friend . It rewards patience with persistent chuckles , and fills its humble plate . Marvelously wry comedy about the odd relationship between a crusty Norwegian man and a snoopy Swedish researcher who 's assigned to sit in his kitchen and chart his movements there . Mr. Hamer never goes for belly laughs , preferring instead the smiles of quiet recognition from viewers who appreciate a change of pace from all the slobbering in recent movies . Might evaporate if it were any drier . But it is a comedy , and a pretty charming one at that . A warm tale that 's prepared just right . 	By turns touching and funny , this Norwegian import offers quietly absorbing commentary on modern life and friendship .
king kong A bit more time in the editing room could 've lifted it into great blockbuster territory . instead we 've got a sporadically entertaining escapade that never captures our hearts like it so desperately wants too . [ The film ] reminds us of why we first fell in love with Kong and Hollywood movies in general . Overlong by half , hedonistically animated and decadently self-indulgent King Kong is beastly to be sure , but there is little beauty here . It is too bad that Jackson and his co-screenwriters , Philippa Boyens and Fran Walsh , felt the need to turn a simple adventure story into a bloated three-hour extravaganza . Packed with enough edge-of-your-seat/did-I-just-see-that/goose-bumpy popcorn pleasure for a year 's worth of blockbusters . ... Jackson has honored it with a film that not only stands next to the original but often surpasses it . Peter Jackson has done the impossible and followed up with Ring trilogy with an equally entertaining flick . Most great movies are lucky to have a handful of moments to remember ; King Kong has at least two dozen . A very good remake . But Kong 1933 is still King , baby . Peter Jackson 's remake of the 1933 classic is a loving homage that recreates and updates many of the familiar sequences ... Unfortunately , the recreation leaves one wondering what , exactly , the point of the film is , other than indulging the director ... 	Featuring state-of-the-art special effects , terrific performances , and a majestic sense of spectacle , Peter Jackson 's remake of King Kong is a potent epic that 's faithful to the spirit of the 1933 original .
sweet home alabama It 's as preposterous and phony as a Confederate C-note , but Reese Witherspoon has so much natural beauty , talent and charm she guarantees more fun than the day the hogs ate Willie . Witherspoon puts the sweet in the sugary `` Sweet Home Alabama . '' Using her blond , blue-eyed pout to full advantage , Witherspoon is just as likable as a Southern belle as she was as a California sorority girl in Legally Blonde . There 's something positively mind-numbing about the relentless predictability of Sweet Home Alabama . ... minus the vivacious charm of its lead star , the movie would have easily been a waste of celluloid . A light , engaging comedy that fumbles away almost all of its accumulated enjoyment with a crucial third act miscalculation . We 've seen all of these elements before , and neither the cast nor the filmmakers succeed at breathing new life into them . Offers very little genuine romance and even fewer laughs ... a sad sitcom of a movie , largely devoid of charm . Sweet Home Alabama is one dumb movie , but its stupidity is so relentlessly harmless that it almost wins you over in the end . Do n't plan on the perfect ending , but Sweet Home Alabama hits the mark with critics who escaped from a small town life . 	Reese Witherspoon is charming enough , but the road to Alabama is well-traveled .
die hard A masterpiece of populist filmmaking . Great escapist action , but it 's still nothing more than an action movie % u2013 cinema 's version of a nice , tasty hamburger . For an evening of edge-of-your-seat entertainment , youd be hard pressed to do much better . Die Hard is probably the most manipulative movie I 've seen this year , but since it makes no bones about being manipulative and does it so well , this not only is n't a problem -- it 's fun . A serviceable if rather overextended and overblown adventure thriller . Superior star vehicle , but utterly insubstantial . ... Not only the best action movie ever made but one of the very best of any genre . An ingenious and ceaselessly self-renewing thriller that surpasses every seeming limitation . The best action-thriller of the 20th Century ... Willis is THE Man~ 'A landmark film that breathed life and originality into an area of cinema where only formulas were proven reliable . ' 	Its many imitators ( and sequels ) have never come close to matching the taut thrills of the definitive holiday action classic .
1212410-get him to the greek Nesavrena , ali sasvim probavljiva holivudska zabava za ove vrue ljetne dane Like the best Apatow films , this follow-up ties your emotions into the characters while your mind reels in convulsions of joy . Under Apatow 's direction , when boys move beyond their base desires , it 's character development . Under Stoller 's , it 's a buzzkill . Far from innovative and even farther from subtle , but it 's one of the more genuinely enjoyable products to come out of the Apatow factory . Needs more Kristen Bell . Feeling like a very laboured version of The Hangover , Get Him To The Greek is a bitter pill to swallow in comparison . Granted , it 's only June and there is still plenty of 2010 left , but if the world were to end tomorrow , Get Him to the Greek would easily go down as the funniest movie of the year . The concept is inspired , and the movie has some very funny moments . But about halfway through this long weekend , the frantic tale grows flimsy . Brand can seem simultaneously randy and strung-out and is often very funny . Hill is surprisingly touching , which is quite a feat given the number of orifices he is required to display . So comically fertile and yet so grounded in the reality of its characters that it 's really a kind of marvel . 	Thanks to a suitably raunchy script and a pair of winning performances from Jonah Hill and Russell Brand , Get Him to the Greek is one of the year 's funniest comedies .
p2 Has quite a bit going for it , which makes its eventual reliance on inane genre gimmicks that much more disappointing . Despite its clumsy flaws , P2 has one or two worthwhile ideas . There 's a fine line between the gloriously grotesque and the repulsively grisly , and the picture crosses it too often . Routine but skillful , P2 takes a bare-bones premise and uses it to string up a series of escalatingly tense situations . Like a driver lost in a parking garage , this awful splatter-fest spends its time going in circles accomplishing nothing . Despite an enormously creepy turn from Bentley , the story has nowhere else to go but into the standard ( albeit judiciously used ) stalk-and-slash territory . The ingredients of modern horror kill the atmosphere and make P2 less scary , not more . P2 may be bad enough to become some other type of classic than the holiday kind . It 's lurid and overblown , relying on its lionhearted heroine never to play her most obvious escape card , but for those with a taste for such silliness , it makes for a harrowing night at the movies . Bentley plays the role of funny , cagey psychopath quite well , and the film packs more laughs than frights . What woman would n't be interested after his homicidal message of love ? 	P2 is full of gore , but low on suspense , featuring a cat-and-mouse plot has been done many times before .
calvary 2013 The way 'Calvary ' bobs between serious and comedic - while always being prickly - mirrors how the film as a whole refuses to settle for anything . Writer-director John Michael McDonagh has crafted a bleak and bitter film . I kept waiting the for the film to make a wrong turn , to cheat , to take the easy way out , to lean on film cliches and formulas , but it never did . McDonagh explores this village of secrets with tremendous care and craftiness , and provides Gleeson with another stellar opportunity to deliver striking work . A film that is constantly commenting on itself , looking askance in the mirror and chuckling at its own presumption . What 's at stake here , in this grim and grimly comic story , is how a man of God will face his fate . Gleeson looms over the film . The mood here is far more sombre , as Gleeson 's thoroughly decent cleric reflects on sin and death , mercy and forgiveness ... But there is humour , too , especially from the gallery of eccentrics and oddballs who inhabit this wind-whipped Sligo parish . ... an anguished Catholic drama , yet McDonagh also brings a certain lightness to the tale . This priest cuts through false motives , calls people on their baloney , talks to them straight , loves them despite themselves . Sort of like his Lord . No wonder they want to kill him . Calvary is full-to-bursting with a raft of idiosyncratic characters and philosophical conflicts and the current crisis in the Church and idiomatic comic dialogue strung along by the script 's thriller-like ticking clock . It 's also beautifully shot . 	Led by a brilliant performance from Brendan Gleeson , Calvary tackles weighty issues with humor , intelligence , and sensitivity .
goldfinger One of the best , if not the best Bond movie Goldfinger is sometimes very enjoyable , but it 's too uneven for me to call it a masterpiece . Goldfinger is a crucial work in the development of the Bond legend . The iconic James Bond movie , this third entry into the franchise is rightly heralded for offering the perfect blend of action , adventure , gunplay , fisticuffs , gadgetry ( that Aston Martin ! ) , romance , derring-do , and just about everything else . Ours not to reason why with `` Goldfinger '' ; ours but to gape and admire ; which is very easy and enjoyable until the story 's iceberg of extravagance finally appears in its true proportions . Okay Bond entry . If it is not a great film , it is a great entertainment , and contains all the elements of the Bond formula that would work again and again . Sean Connery excelle une fois de plus dans la peau d'un personnage aussi froid que charismatique qui continue de foncer tte premire avec un dtachement souvent irrationnel ... so cleverly directed at breakneck speed by Guy Hamilton that patrons scarcely have time to catch their breath between the fantastic dangers , killings and escapes , most of them completely unbelievable . This 1964 entry is the most enjoyable of the James Bond thrillers starring Sean Connery -- perhaps because it 's the most comic and cartoony in look as well as conception . 	Goldfinger is where James Bond as we know him comes into focus - it features one of 007 's most famous lines ( `` A martini . Shaken , not stirred '' ) and a wide range of gadgets that would become the series ' trademark .
1194209-elegy Sparse , low-budget drama , helmed by Spaniard Isabel Coixet , intelligently translates Roth 's meditation on lust and mortality without soft-pedaling its narrator 's brutally honest , unabashedly sexist views . Elegy sneaks up on you anyway -- even overacted , Roth 's intelligence shines through . A remarkable example of the actor at his best -- conveying wounded hurt or burning hunger with a glance . Remarkably dour and unsexy . This is adult story-telling , elegantly restrained and unmistakably classy , which casts a dispassionate eye on a man who loses heart at the same time as he loses his youth , potency and relevancy . As adult entertainment , there 's nothing around that can touch it . Every once in a while [ Kingsley ] will give the type of performance , like his superb lead turn in the drama Elegy , that reminds you of just how great he can be when he 's properly motivated . A feat that Coixet ( My Life Without Me , The Secret Life of Words ) and her exquisite cast pull off with knowing aplomb and subtle skill . While this may seem like an apologia for randy older men , it does n't come off that way , and Cruz gives her best performance to date . Its tone and style , unfortunately , have little to do with the novella it adapts . 	An intelligent , adult , and provocative Philip Roth adaptation that features classy performances , Elegy is never quite the sum of its parts .
mr turner He is the Man Who Watches . Unusually , a long running time is a positive factor here , especially as Turner 's painting style begins to change radically in sync with his advancing age . A portrait of the artist as visionary oddball , for whom life was an endless source of both beauty and the irritating distractions blocking his view of said beauty . Mr. Turner is n't quite an aesthetic failure , yet neither is it an unabashed success the way many of Leigh 's recent works have proven to be . [ Leigh and ] cinematographer Dick Pope beautifully recreate the fog-smeared landscapes and hazy colors of Turner 's paintings , and the effect is like watching J.M.W . Turner stomp and growl and sketch his way through the contours of his own imagination . An astute summation of Mike Leigh 's glum view of humanity , but also a challenge to this disposition and his own pessimistic perspective . Mr. Turner , for better or worse , is a film that stays with you . Turner , you 'd hope , would be proud . Epic in breadth and length ( 2 1/2 hours ) , and gorgeously photographed ( digitally ) by Bill Pope , Mr. Turner is intimate in incident . Mr. Turner is no barrel of laughs . It 's a barrel of life - an extraordinary one . 	Led by a masterful performance from Timothy Spall and brilliantly directed by Mike Leigh , Mr. Turner is a superior Hollywood biopic .
saint OK , so The Saint is nothing more than throwaway fun . It 's a textbook popcorn picture . Well-executed and more satisfying than Mission : Impossible , this super-production is packed with thrills and high-tech gadgetry . The script is a mixed bag of elaborate and unnecessary pseudo-politics , intriguing ideas and mostly confusing rehashed romantic mishmash . One of the most ludicrous scripts to come out of the Hollywood Script Factory in recent years . The Saint is all glitz and comic-book spy plot with no more than a passing hint that Templar has a real personality behind the disguises . While that obviously-altered- to-make- it-happy ending is truly annoying , it 's The Saint 's combination of action and comedy that make it a worthwhile trip . Kilmer slips in and out of a series of ludicrously elaborate disguises , some more convincing than others , while poor Shue shuffles through the role of a sexy , book-reading babe pretending to be a dowdy lady scientist in kneesocks . There was enough in the movie for me to watch and somewhat enjoy it the whole way through . Loud , frantic , ridiculously overproduced and featuring a preening performance by Val Kilmer as a supposedly brilliant master of disguise , The Saint is sheer overkill . The predictable action-thriller elements are all in place , from coke-sniffing , machine-gun-toting thugs to monotonous narrow escapes . The look is stylish , sound is above average , and the acting only as good as it has to be . 	The Saint is watchable thanks to Kilmer and Shue , but the muddled screenplay stretches credulity .
digimon the movie The film is strictly for the kiddies , there 's not that many grownups who would stand for monsters going at each other yelling Fart POWER ! ! ! ! ! or whatever it is they 're saying . If there is any taste left in the world , the buck may very well stop here . After about an hour , the picture simply runs out of plot . When another adventure is introduced , you 're all but invited to check your watch . Can be surprisingly smart and lively in its early going , thanks to some cheeky , well-written humor , a genuine sense of excitement and topical ties to the Internet . I 'm sorry , but it 's highly unlikely that few will argue with the point that more than one such 'mon ' game , TV show or movie is one too many . With its migraine-inducing laser showdowns and puerile gags ... Digimon almost makes you nostalgic for the relative sophistication of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles . Digimon is n't deserving of much , as it 's still not a very good movie . But at least it 's not as bad as Pokemon . [ Parents ] may be peering at their watches and sympathizing with the Digimon who wails , 'What do we have to do to stop this fighting ? ' This picture is such a hyperactive hodgepodge ... mostly because it 's cobbled together from three short Japanese movies . Animation work is generally far below the standard tolerable for the bigscreen . 	Digimon is better than Pokemon , but it 's still a predictable movie with mediocre animation .
sunshine Despite all that talent on display , Sunshine is a philosophical blank slate . The closer he gets to the sun , the more Boyle loses his nerve , reducing a tense , unpredictable thriller to a needlessly bloody , pseudo-spiritual mess . There is nothing new under the sun , but at least the talented Boyle still brings the heat . For two thirds of the film , Sunshine has a lot to offer . If only Boyle and Garland could rein in their worst instincts , what a movie they might make . A decent science-fiction movie which despite its solid overall production would surely have been a lot better had the momentum and ethereal quality of its first two acts been smoothly transitioned into the finale . Sunshine has a more ethereal look than the average science fiction movie but , considering the subject matter , it works . not crammed with excitement , but it is thoroughly engrossing The characters are n't much like real astronauts , but this is a price worth paying to shed light on the topic of rising to the occasion or crumbling in response to extremes . Sunshine comes with the promise of 2001 : A Space Odyssey , as imagined by Danny Boyle . Even as Armageddon as imagined by Danny Boyle , it does n't disappoint . The knockout trailer promised a masterpiece . It 's not that , but it is entertaining . 	Danny Boyle continues his descent into mind-twisting sci-fi madness , taking us along for the ride . Sunshine fulfills the dual requisite necessary to become classic sci-fi : dazzling visuals with intelligent action .
lagaan once upon a time in india It 's not so much a movie as an experience , an exhilarating dip into different cultural waters to a place where lovers actually call each other 'beloved ' and no one laughs . A movie that amply delivers on the epic promise of its title , entertaining , enlightening , and emboldening viewers with its deceptively simple premise and execution . An old-fashioned crowd-pleaser that charms you into forgiving any of its shortcomings . It works its magic with such exuberance and passion that the film 's length becomes a part of its fun . Provides an entertainingly accessible introduction into the world of the Bollywood musical . Even during the climactic hourlong cricket match , boredom never takes hold . Unbeatable entertainment from India , and proof that the often derided Bollywood film industry is entirely capable of beating Hollywood at its own game . An involving , easily digestible hunk of pure entertainment that could be the trigger for Bollywood 's long-awaited crossover to non-ethnic markets . A good example of the 'masala ' type of Indian filmmaking , where politics , romance , class consciousness and long musical numbers are stirred together in an entertaining stew . [ I ] t is long , but it never sags . 	Lagaan is lavish , rousing entertainment in the old-fashioned tradition of Hollywood musicals .
chronicles of narnia prince caspian Its darker tone and well turned performances lend credibility and urgency to the story , but the forced Disney/Walden-style kiddie pandering makes for a rather schizophrenic experience . It 's a dragged-out exercise , with no epic scale and no spirit worth talking about . Up against other summer blockbusters and practically going head to head with Indian Jones , Chronicles of Narnia fans will not be disappointed in this rousing fantasy . This new Narnia has more of everything , especially action and top-notch effects , but loses some of its soul in the process . What 's important here is that Narnia -- and its fascinating all-ages mix of pagan myth and Christian symbolism , of boy's-own-adventures and Round Table heroics -- is back . A passably good action film , but it does n't really deliver much more than that . Is there nothing Peter Dinklage can not do % u2026and do it well ? All in all , a solid and respectable entry to the ledger . C.S . Lewis meets Teen Beat . Repetition is to be expected in a franchise with an audience to please . 	The Chronicles of Narnia : Prince Caspian is an entertaining family adventure worthy of the standard set by its predecessor .
step up 2 the streets It 's not a little obvious that the Step Up franchise means to keep a Disneyfied hand in the apparently inexorable dance movie cycle . Not exactly the Jets and the Sharks . Undeniably energetic and viscerally satisfying , but emotionally hollow . Step Up 2 has only a few points of correlation with its predecessor . It 's also probably the single most racist movie that will be released by any major American studio in the first 10 years of the twenty-first century . Inexplicably , I liked this film more than its predecessor . Wait - let me type that again , just to let the reality sink into my own mind : I actually liked Step Up 2 . All of this feverish bending , twirling , twisting and snapping of the body is so infused with attitude , in fact , that it allows the film and its characters to live and breathe in ways that run counter to the movie 's otherwise rhythmless script . The dance has to be good because the rest of the movie is one long cliche . A robust addition to the street dance sub genre of movies , Step Up 2 The Streets offers plenty of exhilarating routines and a feasible storyline To say this film ( and any other dancing competition film ) is formulaic is an understatement . However , formalism is entirely forgivable when you look at the marketplace . Electrifying dance elevates an almost boring film . 	There 's a kinetic appeal to the handsome cast and their smooth moves , but everything else about Step Up 2 the Streets is been there , danced that .
1001193-around the world in 80 days The movie has not aged well . To its credit , it is benign and charming , with an intoxicating musical score , compelling cinematography and a continually advancing locale . An interminable travelogue interspersed with sketches in which star-spotting affords some relief . Not only the beginning of cameos , this was also the beginning of large , flashy , special-effects ladden spectacles that did more for the dazzling of the eye than it did for the mind . The movie has not aged well . Many of the performances are arch , playing the comedy broadly , which is blandly predictable as the film grinds on and on . An amusing trip around the world in a style befitting Jules Verne , Around the World in 80 Days lives up to its hype as a massive , glossy epic . Around the World in Eighty Days may have its faults and lost some of its original allure , but it remains a sure-bet even today . Everything about this big , beautiful movie smacks of authenticity , excitement , and massive showmanship . Michael Anderson 's direction could n't be more unimaginative and flat . A movie like this should be swimming in creative whimsy , and a sense of wonder . There 's nothing of that sort here . The wonder is that this Polyphemus of productions does not simply collapse of its own overweight ; but , thanks principally to Showman Todd , the picture skips along with an amazing lightness . Big , loud , flashy fun . But `` Best Picture '' ? I do n't think so . 	It 's undeniably shallow , but its cheerful lack of pretense -- as well as its grand scale and star-stuffed cast -- help make Around the World in 80 Days charmingly light-hearted entertainment .
say anything Crowe 's script is honest and straightforward in its simplicity , yet deeply moving in its details and nuances . The cast is irresistibly charming , down to the bit parts by Lili Taylor and Amy Brooks as Lloyd 's best friends . he love story is as old-fashioned as the jokes are old hat , but Crowe 's amusing script and unforced direction allow the actors to develop reasonably authentic characters from stereotypical roles . Even as a cynical , anti-romantic teen , I loved this movie . The film is all charming performances and grace notes , but there are plenty of worse things to be . Finally , we have a teen film that does n't dumb down its story line and play it solely as a goofy teen film . Say Anything does the nearly impossible of making a satisfying film from a high school dating comedy . Cameron Crowe creates a beautiful film filled with uncertainties and paints romance as horrifying , but an experience that 's also very much worth it . Without a shadow of a doubt the most rewarding , funny , and likable romance of the last twenty years . It heralds the decency of romantic love against the gears of a cold , grinding mechanical world . Has one of the great movie endings of all time . 	One of the definitive Generation X movies , Say Anything is equally funny and heartfelt -- and it established John Cusack as an icon for left-of-center types everywhere .
harold and kumar 2 The film is far from an intelligent commentary on America 's race relations ... but at a time when race is at the forefront of the American discussion , it presents the topic in a way at which we can laugh . [ A ] ctually scores more points off the nation 's paranoid and repressive post-9/11 mindset than all of Hollywood 's hand-wringing war-on-terror dramas put together . Unfortunately , nothing in Harold & Kumar Escape From Guantanamo is funnier than its title . For a stoner comedy , it makes some lucid points . They 've given their raunchy comedic world more depth , and it pays off with even bigger laughs than those found in the first one . ... has been infused with an uncomfortably over-the-top sensibility that handily obliterates the easy-going feel of its predecessor ... Not a high point in stoner comedies , the snickering filmmakers miss their chance to take on racial profiling in the war on terror . Bongs away ! It 's laugh out loud funny , and once the screenwriters figure out how to resolve 's Patrick Harris 's return , they still have Amsterdam . The satire is anything but nuanced in this zany comedy targeted to the 17-35 set , and that 's just how its audience likes it . It 's lost some of the outrageous edge found in the original film , but there is still plenty of irreverent laughs 	It may not equal its predecessor , but Harold and Kumar Escape from Guantanamo Bay is still good for some laughs -- and food for thought .
the orphanage An unsettling , eerie story , reminiscent of Nicole Kidman 's 'The Others ' . It will haunt you , rock you , and make hairs you did n't even know you have stand at attention in fear . Do n't miss it . The Orphanage contains jolts and gruesome moments . But most of the time , the film unsettles in quieter , more encompassing ways , its horrific qualities derived from implication instead of imagery . Like the best of horror films , it gets under your skin not with gore or cheap jolts but with an unnerving , ever-building tension , and with images that remain with you long afterward , interrupting your own quiet dreams . The Orphanage [ is ] durable and engrossing , traits that help overshadow its genre-bound features . The kind of movie that reminds horror fans why they became hooked on the genre in the first place . The best haunted-house-cum-ghost-movie I have seen in years . This Christmas , Spain has given the film world the best possible gift : a new and brilliant young director . It 's a ghoulish page ripped from del Toro 's recognizable cinema handbook , and while highly effective at times , the film suffers from red light/green light pacing , which eventually robs this eerie picture of ultimate disturbance . This Spanish psychological mystery is captivating , creepy and hopeful . 	Deeply unnerving and surprisingly poignant , The Orphanage is an atmospheric , beautifully crafted haunted house horror film that earns scares with a minimum of blood .
what women want Liberates [ Gibson ] from the confines of an action hero , and he takes full flight . If you 're in the mood for some well-done fluff -- with some deft performances and bright dialogue -- you could do a lot worse . It 's most productive to view it for what it is -- a romantic comedy that is as entertaining as it is inconsequential . It says a lot about this film that the most moving moment it provides is a Nike commercial for female runners created by the real-life Weiden-Kennedy Agency . Where Groundhog Day stretched its one joke into several branches of hilarity , What Women Want stares its singular premise into the abyss of mediocrity . Does n't even look to have been directed ; manufactured is perhaps a more apt description , pieced together using demographic studies and marketing reports and focus groups . The women are basically innocent victims of male piggishness The men are all cads . Nancy Meyers ' wry What Women Want is all kinds of better than Nora Ephron 's coincidence-laden Meg Ryan comedies ... Meyers ' women have precious little on their minds . Fans of bubbly romances can consider this a thumbs up . I call it a clenched-teeth concession at best . 	Even though Gibson is a good sport in his role , What Women Want is a rather conventional , fluffy comedy-romance that does n't make good use of its premise .
1000013-12 angry men The cast is incredible , the writing superb , and the film is unparalleled in its sheer excellence . Sidney Lumet 's feature directing debut is a brilliant courtroom drama , with a superlative cast that includes Henry Fonda , Martin Balsam , Ed Begley , Jack Warden , and E.G . Marshall . Thoroughly engaging , there is nothing dated or corny in Reginald Rose 's intensely knowing screenplay and Lumet 's energetic direction . This was Sidney Lumet 's first movie and it 's as riveting as it was back in the late 50s , when everything was changing . 12 Angry Men ( 1957 ) is the gripping , penetrating , and engrossing examination of a diverse group of twelve jurors - all male , mostly middle-aged , white , and This film is a great combination of an adult theme and the treatment suitable for younger audience . Ainda que se passe em um nico ambiente , esta obra-prima possui um alcance emocional imensurvel - e incrvel que tenha sido o primeiro longa-metragem de Lumet . A brilliant courtroom drama whose strength lies within the power of Rose 's words and Sidney Lumet 's great direction ( his debut ) . Power house jury room drama w/cast of memorable actors . A film with texture , humour and relevance at all times . All in 91 minutes . 	Sidney Lumet 's feature debut is a superbly written , dramatically effective courtroom thriller that rightfully stands as a modern classic .
mississippi grind As it turns out , I love California Split so much that I did n't mind watching it again . Putting a fresh spin on familiar themes , this character-driven drama is a confident bet . Winds up being that rare beast : the buddy comedy where you 're not tired of the buddies well before the credits roll . Discerning arthouse-goers will warm to the film 's superb performances , haunting sense of place and willingness to meander , as well as its sly rumination on the mysterious interplay of fate and friendship in shaping an individual 's destiny . A remarkably fully-realized portrait of a couple of losers , whose brand new friendship is forged over a poker table and plays out on a fool's-errand road trip through some of the most seedily-picturesque pit stops in the U.S . ... it 's perhaps a shame that `` Mississippi Grind '' is ultimately too underwhelming to stake with any confidence . Both of these men have more shadings and unexpected , often hidden layers than we thought , and the actors reveal them in pieces , often at moments where you do n't expect to be surprised , much less confounded . Edging close to greatness , this is a very good -- albeit rather sad -- character study about friendship , addiction and the hope for redemption -- or the next closest thing . `` Mississippi Grind '' winds up being an improbably satisfying , even heartwarming character study . The filmmakers know how to squeeze a lot from only a little narrative , Mendelsohn once again proves he 's the reigning king of ne'er-do-wells and Reynolds has never been better . 	Well-acted and steeped in Southern atmosphere , Mississippi Grind is a road movie and addiction drama that transcends each of its well-worn genres .
meet the spartans Clocking in around 69 minutes total , Meet the Spartans is not a movie . All involved should feel slightly ashamed . Perhaps the most oft-quoted line from 300 is `` Tonight , we dine in hell ! '' Chowing down on a box of Butterfinger Minis during a screening of Meet the Spartans , you will truly understand what that line means . When the comedy revolution comes , Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer will be the first ones shot . This was the worst movie I 've ever seen , so bad that I hesitate to label it a 'movie ' and thus reflect shame upon the entire medium of film . Messrs. Friedberg and Seltzer make their annual locust-like descent on theaters leaving a trail of ruthlessly murdered brain cells in their wake . This is supposed to be a spoof of '300 . ' But 'Meet the Spartans ' is n't a satire of anything . It 's just a bunch of body-function-based skits that randomly feature scenes from movies and television shows -- and not a single one of them is laugh-inducing Obviously , it 's rubbish . Until the mainstream produces some films undeserving of idiot violation , the idiot violation represented by Meet the Spartans -- a Xerox of absolute zero -- will be par for the course . I 'm moving to Europe . You could teach a college course on what not to do in a comedy by showing Meet the Spartans . 	A tired , unfunny , offensive waste of time , Meet the Spartans scrapes the bottom of the cinematic barrel .
nights in rodanthe I was pretty well braced for everything to come , but man , that scene with the daughter at the end still got me . Damn you , Nicholas Sparks , and your magical tear jerking super powers ! The story needs rage and poetry and red-blooded sensuality , and we get respectable stodginess . If the story is a dreary one , it is elevated by the star brio of Gere and Lane . The comparative savvy that Wolfe showed in HBO 's stage-to-TV transfer of Lackawanna Blues has gone missing . 'Nights in Rodanthe ' serves up too much manipulated sentimentality for my taste , even though I admit being incurably romantic most of the time . One of this year 's most stirring romances , adroitly manipulative , yes , but never condescending . Nights in Rodanthe , the latest screen adaptation of a Nicholas Sparks story , is a picture smothered in syrupy excess . Where is Dutch Schultz and his meat fork when you need them ? The movie attempts to jerk tears with one clunky device after another , in a plot that is a perfect storm of cliche and contrivance . For 94 minutes women ( at least middle-aged women ) can drink in Gere and men ( of all ages ) can gaze at Lane ( whose beauty makes me gasp for air ) . What 's wrong with that ? 	Derivative and schmaltzy , Nicholas Sparks ' Nights in Rodanthe is strongly mottled by contrivances that even the charisma of stars Diane Lane and Richard Gere ca n't repair .
bedtime stories For a creative premise , it 's downright dispiriting to see such a banal interpretation . It descends into pathos , undermined by an insipid romantic subplot and the usual platitudinous guff about self-belief . While kids will get a few giggles out of this scattershot Disney fantasy-comedy , adults probably wo n't find much to laugh at . Russell Brand is absurd , funny and wonderfully out of place in a family movie . And hello : crazy pop-eyed animated guinea pig alert ! There may once have been a charming idea at the heart of Bedtime Stories , but alas , whatever it might have been has been Sandler-ized . And not for your protection . A fun idea turns into a so-so comedy thanks to an unappealing hero and variable performances from the well-known cast . Sandler tames his jokes for family-friendly fantasy flick . There 's nothing fresh in Sandler 's role that you have n't seen in almost every movie he 's ever done -- the same mumbly , underachiever-schlub notes he 's been hitting for years , only taken down a notch for his first PG-rated comedy . A likable but thin Disney vehicle for Adam Sandler that will play best for preteens . I was so exhausted by Sandler 's rubbery-face-and-funny-voices schtick , that no amount of good-natured moralizing about the importance of family and love was going to have any effect on me . 	Though it may earns some chuckles from pre-teens , this kid-friendly Adam Sandler comedy is uneven , poorly paced , and lacks the requisite whimsy to truly work .
1010679-invasion of the body snatchers [ Philip ] Kaufman 's version persuasively asserts its right to life as an imaginative reflection of our time ... This will read less like a review and more like a valentine , but this is a very , very special film , a forgotten classic of the '70s cinema . Gives remakes a good name . Not as terrifying as the original , but still a shocker . ... what if the mask of your neighbor tilts for a second and you catch a glimpse of the riot going on behind his face ? Personally I think this version to be superior to the original and to be much underrated by both critics and audiences . one of the best remakes ever The screenplay by W.D . Richter builds at a deliberate pace , and within the first half hour we 're already disturbed by the almost imperceptible behavior of those who have been snatched . utterly chilling [ VIDEO ESSAY ] Thematically , the film 's allegory regarding viral-groupthink has plenty of wiggle-room for interpretation because it is so profoundly vague yet universal . 	Employing gritty camerawork and evocative sound effects , Invasion of the Body Snatchers is a powerful remake that expands upon themes and ideas only lightly explored in the original .
terminator 4 Essentially everything here is macho-posturing eye candy . It could have all been a lot worse and with some imaginative new Terminators , a great score some thrilling action set-plays , critics slating the film will be proven harsh as box office results and public opinion soon come in . formoylaiki problepsimotita toy senarioy , poy me tis ftines strofes toy , afinei to timoni stin eikonografisi , i opoia , an kai ploysioparoha entyposiaki , den einai da kai orama oramatisti Terminator Salvation is a soulless sequel which could have been made by Skynet itself . Terminator Salvation is all special effects and zero depth . Definitely a 'summer blockbuster ' and has enough great moments in it to outweigh any groaners that it may also have . In fact , the good moments outweigh the bad about 20 to 1 . Terminator Salvation proves the machines-against-man-raging-against-the-machines franchise is still alive and kicking . Kicking A** , that is . It 's basically a cheap thrill . An expensive cheap thrill . A futile popcorn flick that fails to live up to the franchise standards . Dedicated Terminator fans continually crave to see humans and machines slug it out . McG has sparked a moribund franchise back to life , giving fans the post-apocalyptic action they 've been craving since they first saw a metal foot crush a human skull two decades ago . 	With storytelling as robotic as the film 's iconic villains , Terminator Salvation offers plenty of great effects but lacks the heart of the original films .
hereafter A baby-brained meditation on the afterlife , it 's a cosmic catastrophe , the kind of New Age nonsense a schoolkid might write before realising what a crock of hooey it was and binning it . Hereafter does n't feel like a Clint Eastwood film ; it 's more like a very special edition of John Edward 's psychic TV show . A terrific , albeit dreary , character drama that directly addresses one of humanity 's most enduring mysteries . Hereafter ca n't quite make up its mind what it is exactly about , resulting in a film that builds and builds and builds ... to nothing . Eastwood fails to infuse any moments of suspense or heart into the story and when all is said and done , Hereafter is an anticlimactic , sleepy and momentum-less mess of a film . Has no narrative thrust and nothing profound to say , although it 's mostly well acted and features some diverting locations , including a good deal of south London . Morgan and Eastwood 's depiction of the afterlife repeats the standard clichs , never examining whether the white light and the unintelligible greeting committee stick around for all eternity or are the result of human brain chemistry firing wildly . Now powering through his 80s , Clint Eastwood is doing the best , most thoughtful work of his career . Along with a plodding script , the key character knows what he wants but takes no bold steps to get it . Even Damon appears confused in the movie . ... at once comforting and unsettling -- both in the best possible way . 	Despite a thought-provoking premise and Clint Eastwood 's typical flair as director , Hereafter fails to generate much compelling drama , straddling the line between poignant sentimentality and hokey tedium .
last train home-2009 Last Train Home is a startling look at the devastating human cost of China 's newfound embrace of capitalism . Chinese-Canadian director Lixin Fan considers the social upheavals wrought by China 's economic miracle . Fan 's fly-on-the-wall perspective enables the viewer to empathize with all the players in the family drama , unlikely to have a happy ending . Chinese-Canadian director Lixin Fan presents the human cost of China 's economic rise in terms any parent or child can understand . It 's a fascinating , heartbreaking attempt to capture the overwhelming hugeness , and harsh growing pains of China 's exploding economy , by focusing on one family . Last Train Home is an intimate portrait of an unfathomable immensity , focusing on a single family caught up in the world 's largest mass migration . Directed by Lixin Fan , who also served as cinematographer and co-editor , `` The Last Train Home '' is a timely and important documentary without being particularly great . Labor Day weekend at the Bourne Bridge has nothing on New Year 's in China . Lixin Fan , handling his own cinematography , shoots with such a painterly eye that he almost undermines the social critique he 's making . Contained in the simple story about one family 's progress in the new China is a larger message about globalization and the rapid dismantling of an entire culture . 	Last Train Home is a haunting , vivid documentary exploring the human toll of China 's economic boom in intimate , unforgettable detail .
this film is not yet rated A good idea executed with insuffient flair and clumsily put together . Unfolding like a detective story , filmmaker Kirby Dick sets out to find who is making the decision to label the movies we see ... a hatchet job if you ever want to see one ... I was looking forward to this film , but found it a boring , biased , uninformative , disappointing lost opportunity . [ Dick 's ] recordings and reenactments of his skirmishes with the MPAA 's executives and lawyers make the association look like a fatuous kangaroo court that rules by fiat rather than reason . Ultimately , Dick subordinates scholarship to passion , which may be exactly what it takes to convince mainstream moviegoers that they should care about a system that shortchanges them when they go to the movies . The true test will be whether the movie will cause the organization to take a look at its own mission and policies . A handy summary piece for many of the complaints about the MPAA over the years . Like a Michael Moore broadside , it ca n't stop ducking and darting between dimly related topics , hoping that the sheer momentum of scorn will see it through . While This Film Is Not Yet Rated may not present the most effective or airtight case against the MPAA , what it does dig up is damning enough . [ Kirby ] Dick has provided an invaluable service : the inclusion of the uncut , full-on puppet sex scene from Team America : World Police . 	A fascinating and entertaining film that will open many eyes to the often-questioned tactics of the MPAA and their ratings sytem .
sir no sir The appropriateness of the Coup 's `` Captain Sterling 's Little Problem '' for a film about the GI antiwar movement during the Vietnam war underlines the awful sameness of then and now . Makes its case insistently enough to raise the question why another war would seem like such a good idea so soon after the Vietnam debacle . In his smart , timely documentary , David Zeiger remembers that war and the veterans whose struggles against it are too often forgotten . A film that threatens the war movement with every showing , the Bush administration should outlaw it from all theatres within fifty miles of an armed forces recruiting station . Zeiger has rallied remarkable faces and voices . The doc proves to be an interesting , respectful portrait of Vietnam vet protestors that ultimately lacks a much-needed measure of dramatic nuance and friction . Most soldiers in every war do n't want to fight . Not all of them whine with the success these people had . [ An ] important and compassionate film . It 's an invaluable record of what some soldiers felt about the war they fought and what some soldiers did about it when they returned home . An aimless pastiche of archival footage and current interviews of former Vietnam vets court-martialed and jailed for their anti-war activities . 	A powerful reflection on a pivotal era , from a viewpoint seldom visited , this documentary hits home , especially with its relevance to current events .
wages of fear When contrabandists become businessmen and human life is blown away as simply as the tobacco in a half-rolled cigarillo , heroism and grace are notions that wither in the heat A harrowing odyssey of four derelicts inching two trucks loaded with nitro-glycerine over a tortuous terrain puts this in the strong meat department with a downbeat theme of fear and its manifestations . `` Wages of Fear '' is an uncompromising parable about money , greed , and man 's jealous desire for that which he can never have . Yves Montand is outstanding in this gritty and unrelentingly suspenseful picture . The excitement derives entirely from the awareness of nitroglycerine and the gingerly , breathless handling of it . You sit there waiting for the theatre to explode . One of the best existential thrillers ever made , Clouzot 's 1952 film , which won the Cannes Fest Palme d'Or , is just as fresh , suspenseful , gritty and haunting today as it was decades ago ; good companion piece to Clouzot 's Diabolique . A significant influence on Peckinpah 's The Wild Bunch , this grueling pile driver of a movie will keep you on the edge of your seat . Clouzot 's camera captures the suspense as visually as Hitchcock `` The Wages of Fear '' is as much about manufactured fear as it is about the folly of courage that feeds on it . A film that works , and works well enough to get audible gasps from the audience . A reeking bandana movie , with all the expected thrills , but a vision of men as scurrying insects with no redeeming features . 	An existential suspense classic , The Wages of Fear blends nonstop suspense with biting satire ; its influence is still being felt on today 's thrillers .
green hornet The Green Hornet puts the masked avenger at the centre of a flimsy , illogical plot and series of headache-inducing action sequences that strain the eyes in 3D . It 's a strange , shapeless , rarely satisfying , but generally amiable movie in which everyone appears to be faking it as they go along , and almost -- almost -- getting away with it . Hard to think of a more mystifying mismatch of filmmaker and material . [ A ] n aggressively goofy spoof of the modern dark , grim vigilante drama ... with as much cartoonish , chaotic energy it can muster ... and more than a little meta cunning , too . Injecting a devil-may-care attitude into a franchise-focused blockbuster only gets you so far . When all is said and done , this wasp 's got no sting . A joy ride of a film that evades the self-consciousness that stalls so many other recent comic-book adaptations , it is one of the best superhero movies ever . It 's not a superhero film ; it 's an exuberant anti-superhero film that exists with no agenda except to delight . Equal parts amusing and tedious - but not in any sense the disaster some have called it . The Green Hornet is crass , unimaginative , unexciting , and not very funny . I was hoping it would at least be mindless fun but it ends up just being mindless . It remains a rare franchise reboot where the sense of playfulness outweighs that of strained psychological depth or grim commercial obligation . 	It 's sporadically entertaining , but The Green Hornet never approaches the surreal heights suggested by a Michel Gondry/Seth Rogen collaboration .
grocers son Eric Guirado 's lovely French drama The Grocer 's Son is about that moment in a young person 's life when he realizes that he is , despite all efforts to the contrary , a grown-up . Director Eric Guirado has woven an endearing modern-day fable that offers a pleasant 90-minute respite from the worries to be found outside the theater doors . A sweet tale of a man learning to care about others , The Grocer 's Son is still simpleminded on a very fundamental level . This is a slow-burning charmer of a film that rewards those prepared to settle into its easygoing pace . This is intimate cinema , rewarding for the way it takes its time . Though its quiet pastoral charms may not change your life the way they do Antoine 's , you 'll find the scenery comforting , the humanity reassuring , and the story appealing . Unforced and beautifully acted . The landscape with Mont Sainte-Victoire regularly in view is seductively beautiful . The Grocer 's Son is best described as a feelgood film that does n't underrate its audiences too much . A little predictable in places , but explores family relationships with pathos and perception . 	A noteworthy performance by Eric Guirado makes this gently pastoral film a moving coming-of-age story .
goodbye solo For Bahrani , Goodbye Solo is strong proof of his status as a great independent talent . An odd-couple relationship fuels a slow-burning but ultimately moving emotional and spiritual journey in Ramin Bahrani 's third feature . There 's hope yet for world cinema if an Iranian-American director can take the premise of an Iranian film , set it in North Carolina , cast the lead roles with an African fashion model and Elvis Presley 's former bodyguard , and produce something utterly new . Goodbye Solo is a deceptive film . Its style is spare , rigorous , almost anti-dramatic , but it deals thoughtfully with some of the most complex elements of the human equation . A quietly soulful study of two very different men . Creating his fiction shrewdly , Ramin Bahrani ultimately suggests that finality , too , has its beauty , and must be valued as much as endless possibility . A thin character study over which critics wank themselves into a state of ecstasy at all the meaning they can superimpose on the film . Hopeful about the rewards that can be mined from the broadening of perspective that comes with getting to know someone outside of your usual social zone . Solo builds to a spellbinding conclusion that left me with ironic developments I 'm still thinking about . The acting is flawless , the world feels utterly real , and the finale accomplishes the miracle of finding in the everyday world something profound . 	An original and thoughtful human drama , Goodbye Solo looks at relationships and loneliness while proving director Ramin Bahrani 's is an important American voice .
film unfinished Discovered after the war , the film contains horrific images of starvation , poverty and humiliation , interspersed with surreal scenes of well-dressed Jews enjoying a restaurant dinner or an urban stroll . There is only about an hour of it , but around it filmmaker Yael Hersonski has built a striking feature . The reconstructed film and Hersonski 's filling and framing devices are a worthwhile social artifact and a reminder of the lengths the Nazis went to to deflect the world 's attention from their real intent : genocide . Takes the whitewash off this propaganda , refuting it on an almost scene-by-scene basis ... this film is like a strong detective story . That Hersonski 's grandmother was a Warsaw Ghetto survivor gives her film a deeply personal edge . That she coolly and convincingly extracts truth from propaganda makes her truly revelatory A Film Unfinished all the more important and compelling . You look into the faces of these doomed souls and you see eternity -- and not the pretty , heavenly kind . a new and uniquely disturbing perspective on the Shoah Hersonski brings something both old and new to the table with this powerful 89-minute documentary . Other strengths are the well-written narration read by Rona Keenan and the haunting original music of composer Yishai Adar . What we are left with is perhaps one of the most disturbing 60 minutes of raw footage ever put together . The Nazis ' infatuation with documentation is visible everywhere in A Film Unfinished , as German soldiers grab residents ' arms or push them along in the street , as starving children sit on curbs and adults hurry along sidewalks . 	A heartbreaking , haunting historical document , A Film Unfinished excavates particularly horrible chapter of Holocaust history , and in doing so , the film provides a glimpse into the Nazi propaganda machine .
1104841-sweet november Emotional subtlety and narrative logic were never quite in the cards for this movie to begin with . Sweet November does neither of its leads any favors . But they fill their roles admirably , and then some . Starts off sappy and original , but ultimately turns sappy and predictable . Should have been called Cloying November . A passable , soggy valentine . A guilty pleasure . `` What are you doing that for ? '' he asks as she undoes his top button . `` Taking it off . It smells like puppy pee . '' That 's a metaphor for the evening 's experience . Beware all male viewers who enter here , you are in chick-movie hell . Despite the promise of its title , the picture is a sappy , soporific sudser that leaves a decidedly sour aftertaste . In instances like these , you have a certain clich about a kitchen sink in the back of your mind , but this is probably the first instance where they do throw it in . 	Schmaltzy and manipulative , Sweet November suffers from an implausible plot and non-existent chemistry between its leads .
with a friend like harry Suspenseful and delightfully creepy . It 's nothing new , terribly recognizable , but , familiarity notwithstanding , it gets the job done . An unusual yet well-balanced mix of dark comedy , French thriller , and surreal drama . A rocking good entertainment . So sublimely subtle and tangible it makes The Talented Mr. Ripley look like a dog and pony show . Add `` who needs family ? , '' and that 's a good indication of how `` Harry '' dives into - but does n't easily resolve - a strangely symbiotic muse relationship . Evil can be just as banal as everyday life , an idea explored with nasty wit and not brutish violence . Wickedly funny . If Hitchcock were alive today , he 'd probably be happy to see someone carrying on the tradition of entertaining viewers with well-crafted , if old-fashioned thrillers that play off the restraint-based notion that sometimes less is more . Unfortunately , the groove it settles into is a lot less interesting than the possibilities suggested earlier . creeps under your skin and leaves you uncomfortable for hours . It could be the French answer to `` Strangers on a Train '' or `` The Talented Mr. Ripley '' ... 	A darkly funny thriller that 's reminiscent of Hitchcock .
under the tuscan sun Looked like a pic for tourists . If it were a half-hour shorter -- and thus better-focused , story-wise -- I would recommend it . As it stands , I have some beautiful mental snapshots of the scenery and the locals , but I ca n't imagine taking the trip again . Wells loads a cliched plot on Mayes ' lighter-than-air memoir . ... audience is swept away into the painting-like landscape the film so intently pushes and forgets the awkwardness of the film 's first reel . It 's as scattered as a painting by Jackson Pollock , as forgettable as a mid-season replacement sitcom on UPN , as moving as a boulder , and as predictable as a self-flushing toilet . It 's The Lizzie McGuire Movie for middle-aged folk . A Caucasian Waiting to Exhale compared to Lane , pretty much everything else in this film falls flat Real issues come up along the way ... but in these Wells proves a mere dabbler , speeding away weightier ideas , and the dimension they promise , in a wash of lemony vistas , easy episodes and exclusively lovable characters . While it starts very well indeed as a kind of blushing Shirley Valentine wannabe , the slide into syrup starts early on . What Lane makes you do is wonder why she has n't been making more movies over the years . 	Though formulaic and superficial , Under the Tuscan Sun is redeemed by Lane 's vibrant performance .
the neverending story 1984 A marvelously realized flight of pure fantasy . Here is a little adventure that fed on our uncultivated need to think , and wonder . It gave many of us our first taste of cinematic possibility . The NeverEnding Story remains a testament to the power of imagination and the type of inventive cinema that was possible in a pre-digital era . Even better if you never see the sequels . An enjoyable departure from both Das Boot and Kajagoogoo . It 's very hard not to give in to The Neverending Story 's heart-in-the-right-place charms amidst an increasingly anti-literate society . [ Blu-ray ] Despite the sophistication of the source material , the film is n't particularly successful . Fantasies as hearty and original as this are rare at the movies . The 'NeverEnding ' part of the title is certainly accurate . Classic fantasy , full of wonderful creatures and characters . 	A magical journey about the power of a young boy 's imagination to save a dying fantasy land , The NeverEnding Story remains a much-loved kids adventure .
snow dogs Frequent flurries of creative belly laughs and genuinely enthusiastic performances ... keep the movie slaloming through its hackneyed elements with enjoyable ease . January is the month when the studios like to dump their dogs , and this film is a real mutt . The huskies are beautiful , the border collie is funny and the overall feeling is genial and decent . This is a family film like they used to make , where the humour balances the drama , the personal tragedies are life lessons and the animals are so darn cute , by golly . Ten minutes into the movie Gooding already has screamed at least 57 times . There 's not much to like or dislike in this ride ; it 's the kind of all-season , live-action amusement that the Disney studio has been churning out for decades . Slapstick stunts , silliness , and shallow sentiment , with little else to satisfy moviegoers who want more than Cuba Gooding Jr. falling down and mugging for the camera . ... As fleeting and insubstantial as a snowflake , and about as much fun . Disney 's latest update of the lame live-action B comedies that have been among the studio 's more dubious contributions to American pop culture . Gooding and Coburn are both Oscar winners , a fact which , as you watch them clumsily mugging their way through Snow Dogs , seems inconceivable . 	A mediocre live-action children 's movie , Snow Dogs is filled with cliched dialogue , tiresome pratfalls , and stale fish-out-of-water jokes .
happily never after Clunkingly obvious . The only real laughs are supplied by the Seven Dwarfs , who are portrayed as hillbilly garden gnomes . A slick piece of computer animation that can be described as a family film only in the sense that it 's a film the whole family will want to avoid . Painfully devoid of charm , wit , and ingenuity , this interminable , tongue-in-cheek slough through Fairy Tale Land is so jaw-droppingly awful , the executors of the Brothers Grimm literary estate should consider taking legal action . 'I hate to tell you , but it gets worse , ' one character promises midway through Happily N'Ever After . No kidding . If you 're old enough to read this sentence , you should probably go see something else . Not counting derivative , obnoxious , poorly animated , and woefully unfunny , what Happily is most of all is dull . Quantities of unimaginative CGI do nothing to perk up a barely sketched storyline . I spent the movie scratching my head over which audience the studio is hoping to profit from with this noisy rubbish . YouTubers ? Tots with ADD ? The press notes boast that the total production time was only 15 months , 'unheard of for a first-class computer animated movie . ' Maybe there 's a reason why that 's unheard-of . Happily N'Ever After is proof-positive that Europeans may have us beaten in soccer , wine and luxury cars , but they still ca n't make a decent 3-D cartoon . 	Happily N'Ever After has none of the moxy , edge , or postmodern wit of the other fairy-tales-gone-haywire CG movie it so blatantly rips off .
super size me Full of interesting facts about the American diet . Completely satisfying . Absolutamente deliciosa . A wonderful achievement -- entertaining , engrossing , and never far from grossing out . A terrific film that takes the seemingly not-so-sexy subjects of health , nutrition , and corporate greed and turns them into informative entertainment . A hilarious and often terrifying look at the effects of fast food on the human body . Spurlock does n't deliver [ his ] message sternly but with bracing humor , a sure command of the facts , a lack of pretention and a stunning act of illustrative self-destruction . [ an ] irreverent and revealing contemporary creep show about our country 's forbidden love affair with unhealthy dining ... worth chewing on as `` reel '' food for thought ... it 's unfortunate that the place of pride belongs to Spurlock 's self-mortification . More than just a cautionary tale or insane sociology experiment . It 's a real look at one of the most pressing issues in our times . 	Entertaining doc about the adverse effects of eating fast food .
metallica some kind of monster You do n't need to be a Metallica fan to appreciate this well-done documentary . Overkill to anyone who never flashed the group 's devil horns salute . The most raw and real portrayal of how a rock group works ... and how it sometimes does n't . Berlinger and Sinofsky are very good at both capturing the specifics of these men 's quarrels and making them universal . This extraordinary film deserves mention alongside such great rock movies as Gim me Shelter and Stop Making Sense . [ P ] rofoundly moving ... may well be the new yardstick against which the next 20 years of rock movies will be measured ... The polar opposite of a puff piece . It 's raw and sometimes ugly , but strives for honesty and intensity -- kind of like Metallica 's own music . Metallica : Some Kind Of Monster is a masterpiece of rock 'n roll documentary filmmaking , and has set the bar high for those who attempt it in the future . A two-and-a-half-hour puff piece about how 'important ' Metallica are and , worse , how much 'integrity ' they have . An astonishingly intimate look at the disconnect between the hard-partying image that earned the band the nickname Alcohollica and the behind-the-scenes reality . 	Fascinating behind-the-scenes look at how Metallica survives one of their more turbulent periods .
quantum of solace While the rejuvenation of the franchise has been put on temporary hold , be assured that 'Quantum of Solace ' sparkles with all the wit and heart-pounding excitement of a movie that takes its name from an Ian Fleming story about cocktail-party chitchat . As an action movie , Quantum of Solace is passable ... As a Bond movie , it 's a mess . Daniel Craig has firmly ensconced himself as one of the definitive Bonds , one now fully updated for the 21st Century . Overwrought , incoherent and unfortunately dated -- a deadly thing for a Bond movie . Quantum of Solace benefits from imaginatively conceived action sequences and from a director , Marc Forster , who knows how to film them . Daniel Craig 's James Bond is already expected to shoulder the karmic burden of more than four full decades of PG-13 callousness . A pacy , visually imaginative follow-up to the series relaunch . If it does n't even try to be bigger and better than Casino Royale , that 's perhaps a smart move . Because the much more serious tone was so different than previous installments of Ian Fleming 's legendary series , Daniel Craig 's debut felt refreshingly updated despite the film 's flaws . Despite his innate intensity , Craig seems a bit ... bored , maybe ? Underutilized , despite appearing in nearly every frame of the film . More like `` The Bond Ultimatum , '' this is the Bournization of Bond . This Bond is almost feral . He is seldom sure but he never , ever stops . 	Brutal and breathless , Quantum Of Solace delivers tender emotions along with frenetic action . Not as good as franchise reboot Casino Royale , but still an impressive entry to the Bond canon .
after tiller 2013 Like the men and women it follows , who do the work that few others dare , 'After Tiller ' takes a stand . Empathetic , intimate look inside late-term abortion clinics that focuses on the experiences of doctors and their patients . Rarely is this issue presented so fairly and without the requisite hysteria . After Tiller takes a compassionate look at a highly impassioned situation . The film is warm and scrupulous , like a sunny women 's clinic . Hard-nosed advocacy segues into lefty-evangelizing treacle as a cloying score accompanies a number of dewy scenes better suited to a maudlin Oprah Winfrey special . This is one of the best films I 've seen this year . The access to doctors , their staffs , patients and families is very impressive . It has a lot of emotional power and it plays the abortion issue right down the middle . It 's a grim story . This is not a balanced doc -- of the little time given to the anti-abortion movement , most of it is from news footage -- but it is an important look at the lives of those who risk their own lives to perform what they see as a necessary service . Wrenching portrait of life and death decisions where even the definition of `` life '' is emotionally laden for doctors and pregnant women considering abortion . 	After Tiller applies empathy , honesty , and graceful understatement to a discussion that all too often lacks them all .
ladder 49 Any spark of drama that might have caught ablaze is smothered by a thick blanket of earnestness . Bearable only to people in deep mourning and vulnerable to emotional coercion . Which is , of course what makes the whole thing so distasteful . The film also criminally wastes latino heart-throb Jay Hernandez , to the point where you suspect that he had a sub-plot that ended up on the cutting room floor . Conventional , lacking in depth , and reliant on the artifical tension of action scenes to goose along an otherwise watchable but dull movie . A better name for `` Ladder 49 '' would have been `` Chutes and Ladders , '' like the game ... This is essentially a male weepie about strong , simple men and the strong , simple women behind them , and as such it 's platitudinous rubbish . It 's slick and it honors firefighters as obviously as the first wave of WWII films paid tribute to America 's fighting men and women . A blazing hagiography replete with swelling strings in the soundtrack and a plot that manipulates heartstrings with equal shamelessness . Baltimore 's firemen are way less interesting than their cops ( see The Wire and Homicide : Life on the Streets ) , or New York 's finest ( see Rescue Me ) . Sentimental and surprisingly uncomplicated , Ladder 49 seems a disservice to the very folks it wants to extol . 	Instead of humanizing the firemen , the movie idolizes them , and thus renders them into cardboard characters .
1112357-scoobydoo Scooby-Doo the movie completely undermines the rationalist , anti-ghost premise of Scooby-Doo the original TV series . The relentless poor thinking behind this project almost plays like an intentional joke . Scooby Do n't . Yep , it 's every bit as awful as it looks in the preview . Since `` Scooby-Doo '' stoops to such bottom-of-the-barrel laughs I have no qualms about using a few childish words to bash this infantile attempt at creating a live-action update of a classic cartoon . Scooby-Doo is poo . Not good enough to pass for a litmus test of the generation gap and not bad enough to repulse any generation of its fans . After seeing this rancid excuse for a film my lifelong obsession with Scooby-Doo was ripped out of my wiggling brain faster than my appendix was sliced out of my belly during last year 's appendectomy . Give it up to the wardrobe folks , who did a fine job of making the lovely ladies in this film look like high-class hookers . Get out your pooper-scoopers . Worth its weight in Scooby snacks . 	Though Lillard is uncannily spot-on as Shaggy , Scooby Doo is a tired live-action update , filled with lame jokes .
julie and julia Julie & Julia is two movies in one . That 's one more movie than it needs to be . Nora Ephron 's winning new movie is a tonic for those seeking something different from the usual summer fare of explosions , aliens and all things gone berserk . And what a swell departure it is . Meryl Streep 's performance brings Julia Child to vivid life ... As Nora Ephron herself has said : `` She plays all of us better than we play ourselves . '' There 's a scene in the movie when Julie is watching SNL and Dan Aykroyd is doing his famous Julia Childs impersonation and it 's not that much different than Streep 's version . Too cartoony . But Adams is fantastic ! This middling melange of Child biopic and contempo dramedy feels overstuffed and predigested . Like a beautiful home cooked meal , Julie & Julia is not perfect by industry standards , just warm , comforting and very , very enjoyable . Perfectly pleasant but slight . Two movies for the price of one . Half is about the famous French cooking maven ( and CIA agent ) . The other is about a blogger who launched a writing career blogging about her attempt to cook all the recipes in Child 's cookbook . All it is lacking is a plot . What an expression of the joy of cooks and cooking Julie & Julia turns out to be . Nora Ephron serves up a hearty silver-service banquet with a story that links the lives of two exceptional American women . 	Boosted by Meryl Streep 's charismatic performance as Julia Child , Julie and Julia is a light , but fairly entertaining culinary comedy .
three monkeys The heavy mood of indolence and rage , calibrated with ellipses in action , is stifling -- everyone seems to move in a queasy haze . It is accomplished , but overdetermined . Its dramatic force ca n't its equal its visual impact , resulting in a clear indication of where Ceylan 's strengths as a director lie . With Three Monkeys , Nuri Bilge Ceylan trains his cool , detached sensibility on a ripe and pulpy melodrama that might have originated in a James M. Cain novel . [ Director Nuri Bilge ] Ceylan takes a step towards the mainstream with a fiercely executed drama that hopefully will expand the ranks of his admirers . With very few words , it really gets under our skin At times while watching it , I found myself fidgeting , my patience for long stare-offs exhausted ; afterward , I could n't stop thinking about it . The film is photographed in a noirish style , but it is so plodding that no part of it is the least bit thrilling . The plot may be simple enough but real artistry is shown by what the director does not show and by the actors ' ability to express their emotions with limited dialogue . There are enough ponderous moments that you may find yourself resisting the heavy mood . This is a fascinating film that , once seen , is hard to dislodge from your imagination . 	Exploring the effects of a family 's dealings with an underhanded politician , this crime drama avoids showing the violent outcomes of its characters ' misdeeds , resulting in a lingeringly potent film .
from paris with love [ Director ] Besson ignores reality and common sense , creating a ludicrous plot that barely provides an excuse for John Travolta to do very bad things in Paris . . . As with Spaghetti Westerns and sit-coms , you know they 've jumped the shark when the tone turns to self-mockery . From Paris with Love is a Royale with way too much cheese for most diets . Morel will inevitably be compared to John Woo , whom he trounces . He has fewer mannerisms and a keener eye ; his fastest , most kinetic shots flow together like frames in a flipbook . Travolta stuffs it up , again . A disposable piece of action fluff that never satisfies our hunger for fun . A bonkers Travolta is always good for a laugh or two , but the picture does n't come through on its promise of a cartwheeling good time . It 's a shame , since Morel and Besson are capable of such wonderful madness . John Travolta kicks that pesky schizophrenic script out of his way to serve up yet another , perfectly entertaining badass . There 's no escaping the grinding gears of an American buddy picture that loses something in the translation . From Paris With Love is a ''fun trash '' movie that 's more trash than fun . 	Thought not without its charms -- chief among them John Travolta 's endearingly over-the-top performance -- From Paris with Love is too muddled and disjointed to satisfy .
1103281-traffic One of the best , if not the best , American films of year 2000 . Eighty percent of this dreary year 's movies should aspire to such a high degree of serious intent and narrative integrity . A grim and pessimistic exploration of an insidious menace that can touch any household not only in this country , but anywhere in the world . Conquers its own threatening conventionality with Soderbergh 's unromantic documentary style and terrific -- and often terrifying -- performances all around , especially from Del Toro . A picture fascinating in both its complexity and absurdity . The decent script and the good performances keep it all from getting too dopey . With Traffic , his most ambitious and complex film to date , Soderbergh again proves himself one of our most inventive filmmakers . This close dissection of the arguably inneffectual drug war being fought by the US government is so complex , so intricate , that I am surprised that the film has met with commercial success . Traffic is a failure of a very high order -- a movie that takes a gutsy stand and displays real filmmaking savvy but simply is n't as exciting as it should be to watch . Traffic is movie excitement from beginning to end . 	Soderbergh successfully pulls off the highly ambitious Traffic , a movie with three different stories and a very large cast . The issues of ethics are gray rather than black-and-white , with no clear-cut good guys . Terrific acting all around .
aviator With Gangs of New York , DiCaprio and Scorsese came close to making a masterpiece ; with The Aviator , they might just have got there . Marty 's most crowd-pleasing , well-behaved movie -- The Aviator is the first Scorsese picture that feels housebroken . Beneath the glossy surface there 's a niggling lack of depth , but otherwise this is a grand , impressive Tinseltown drama . It 's stylish and fleet , and even though it 's meticulously detailed , Scorsese 's devotion to technique never weighs it down . Martin Scorsese 's glossy account of Howard Hughes ' early years ... gets off the ground , cinematically speaking . But it never quite takes flight . Should be a strong contender for a best-picture Oscar . If the folks who made Hollywood were going to make a movie today it would be made like The Aviator . This hugely entertaining film about reclusive billionaire Howard Hughes , combines drama , action and comedy into such a compelling form , it lights the screen as if from within . A little clunky , and firmly in the realm of cinematic fantasy , The Aviator is , nevertheless , a return-to-form for Scorsese . Makes a credible , and often thrilling case that Hughes ' greatest creation was the idea of the man who could do anything , but does far less well when rolling in the muck with those who would rather see a crash than a new plateau achieved . 	With a rich sense of period detail , The Aviator succeeds thanks to typically assured direction from Martin Scorsese and a strong performance from Leonardo DiCaprio , who charts Howard Hughes ' descent from eccentric billionaire to reclusive madman .
philadelphia story The Philadelphia Story ( 1940 ) is an intelligent , sophisticated , classic romantic comedy ( part screwball ) of love and marriage , human growth and class distinctions - Utterly beguiling , funny and romantic ... Romantic comedies are rarely this fabulous . Hepburn , Grant and Stewart star in one of the best romantic comedies ever made ! George Cukor gives it the royal treatment with a splendid supporting cast ... Just sit back and enjoy romantic comedy at its most sublime . The prettiest sight in this fine pretty world ! O charme do trio principal e a inteligncia dos dilogos permitiram que o filme envelhecesse maravilhosamente bem . It has been a long time since Hollywood has spent itself so extravagantly , and to such entertaining effect , upon a straight upper-crust fable , an unblushing apologia for plutocracy . You could ... fill a book with all the magical things that make this witty , swift , and wistful romantic comedy so impossibly good . Hollywood does n't make romantic comedies like this anymore . 	Offering a wonderfully witty script , spotless direction from George Cukor , and typically excellent lead performances , The Philadelphia Story is an unqualified classic .
maverick A financially successful exercise in target-marketing , but not much of a movie . It 's cleverly crafted , and you ca n't help enjoying it even when you know it 's manipulating you as brazenly as a poker dealer with tricky fingers and a well-stacked deck . This movie does n't have the wry kick of the TV show at its best . Too rich , too loaded , Maverick may have misplayed its cards , kept its eyes on the pot instead of the players . In movies , as in poker , you ca n't always trust a pat hand . We can close the competition for the most entertaining of the current spate of feature movies based on old TV shows . Everyone on board seems to be having enormous fun . Paper-thin and insubstantial ... but still full of good-natured fun . By the time Donner crowds his climactic poker game with a bevy of veteran Western character actors , decades of movie tradition have been reduced to window dressing , and Maverick leaves you hungry for the real thing . It 's an enjoyable family film . Formula Hollywood filmmaking at its shallowest . The first lighthearted , laugh-oriented family Western in a long time , and one of the nice things about it is , it does n't feel the need to justify its existence . It acts like it 's the most natural thing in the world to be a Western . 	It is n't terribly deep , but it 's witty and undeniably charming , and the cast is obviously having fun .
a million ways to die in the west A Million Ways to Die in the West will satisfy a lot of cinemagoers . It 's fine , really . For me , Seth MacFarlane is a bit like the Ron Paul of comedy , with three good ideas for every one REALLY bad one , three genuinely funny gags to one so bad it makes me groan until I start to see flashy things in my field of vision . MacFarlane gets away with comic murder in A Million Ways to Die , and he does it by being a little bit naughty and a little bit raunchy . But most of all , by being adorably cute . In a bad boy sort of way . For a man who mocks pop culture so well he can barely pull of the most American of pop culture , the western . This comedy hits the target just enough to find box office gold in them thar hills . [ Seth MacFarlane ] approaches the Western not as a cinephile , but as someone who sat down and really thought about jokes to make about living in a not yet completely settled locale where danger comes from all sides . A dud from Seth MacFarlane . MacFarlane 's comedic approach has always been that of throw everything at the wall and see what sticks . It 's no different this time out , and the jokes are so plentiful that the odds are in this movie 's favor for a substantial number of them to succeed . What helps the picture work - and makes some of the unnecessarily graphic bits easier to forgive - is the interaction between the two leads . If MacFarlane was going for comedic shock value with this film , he failed miserably . What he has put on screen in 2014 is no longer funny or shocking , just stupid and a bit sick . 	While it offers a few laughs and boasts a talented cast , Seth MacFarlane 's overlong , aimless A Million Ways to Die in the West is a disappointingly scattershot affair .
sex and lucia Unfortunately , Sex and Lucia turns out to be just like its '50s art film counterparts : a complex plot , subtitles , narrative obscurity , and only fleeting glimpses of nudity . Hey , who else needs a shower ? Vega is a real find . ... a heart-catching , hair-pin-curving narrative of circumstance , coincidence and destiny . ' [ Sex and Lucia ] is so seductive and profound , it 's as if we 're witnessing a Greek myth coil and flower ... ' While the final picture may not be quite as grand as expected upon completion , the individual pieces remain strikingly beautiful . A company of characters and a trove of opulent experiences to revisit many times . Sexy but pretentious melodrama . Medem 's stupendously gorgeous puzzle movie features strong performances from its four leads . An adept mood maker , Medem strains madly for cosmic alliances , fairy-tale imagery , and fated coincidences , but he triumphs only with two hot bodies , a cluttered apartment , and a Shower Massage . 	Beneath the gratuitous nudity lies a complex and visually striking movie .
natural A nearly perfect combination of superb acting , brilliantly sweet screenwriting and a director at the top of his game . I 've just about had it with directors who use the mythic mode as an alibi for unshaded characterizations , simpleminded plotting , and swells of artificial emotionality . No popped-up fly doubles . Just wham , bam , home run . Get the picture ? An otherwise fine sports fantasy is dragged down by an overindulgence in sentimentality . Sappy fun The scouting report on The Natural has to read : lots of tools but no heart . Levinson must have felt he had to swing for the fences . He can be forgiven for choking up with all The Natural 's fans looking on dubiously . In fairness , the official scorer must credit him with a single . And Redford with an RBI . The message is : Baseball is purely and simply a matter of divine intervention . At about the 130-minute mark , I got the idea that God 's only begotten son was playing right field for the New York team . One of the true great baseball films Jammed full with cliches , The Natural never misses a chance to manipulate the audience 	Though heavy with sentiment , The Natural is an irresistible classic , and a sincere testament to America 's national pastime .
read my lips Read My Lips is not a heist film , a thriller , a twisted romance , a film noir or a character study , but a unique concoction that bends all these genres to its vision . Fascinating and transgressive love story . Subtle , sinister , suspenseful . It 's neither as romantic nor as thrilling as it should be . But it offers plenty to ponder and chew on as its unusual relationship slowly unfolds . The plot mechanics of Read My Lips eventually kind of spin into a fairly conventional thriller , but the wildly talented Cassel and the unconventionally alluring Devos give this movie a unique feel . Read My Lips starts with a bang and ends with an orgasm . Click to read review What makes the movie special is Emmanuelle Devos , whose performance as the secretary is full of surprises . Smart , sharp French thriller with a twist ... a rich and intelligent film that uses its pulpy core conceit to probe questions of attraction and interdependence and how the heart accomodates practical needs . It is an unstinting look at a collaboration between damaged people that may or may not qual 	A clever and offbeat character study about two people discovering each other .
barbarian invasions The only thing that separates Invasions from vile tripe like Stepmom and Sweet November is the language its mawkish characters spew . A deeply felt celebration of the life force . The performances are first-rate , especially from Girard . Arcand 's direction is heartfelt and artful . The Barbarian Invasions is manipulative without apology , and we want it to be . Despite an uneven cast , Arcand finds a tonal balance between sentimental and cynical that keeps the conversations real and heart wrenching . If your tears flow ( which they assuredly will ) , they will be cathartic tears , tears as much of joy and affirmation as of sadness . Life , liberty , and the pursuit of loose women ; it 's wonderful to be dying in Montreal . [ A ] masterpiece . The occasion is death , but the movie is a joyous celebration of life . One of the most intelligent and articulate entertainments of the year from any country . 	A moving and heart-felt film from director Denys Arcand .
betty fisher and other stories Like a Tarantino movie with heart , Alias Betty is richly detailed , deftly executed and utterly absorbing . The story pulls us in almost immediately -- and the style and cast keep us hooked . Often shocking but ultimately worthwhile exploration of motherhood and desperate mothers . Miller tells this very compelling tale with little fuss or noise , expertly plucking tension from quiet . An absorbing trip into the minds and motivations of people under stress as well as a keen , unsentimental look at variations on the theme of motherhood . At its best when the guarded , resentful Betty and the manipulative yet needy Margot are front and center . Understated , elegant meditation on motherhood , obligation and coincidence , all wrapped up in the form of an urban thriller . A small gem of a movie that defies classification and is as thought-provoking as it is funny , scary and sad . Claude Miller airs out a tight plot with an easy pace and a focus on character drama over crime-film complications . Like a three-ring circus , there are side stories aplenty -- none of them memorable . 	Alias Betty works both as a gripping thriller and as a precisely drawn character study .
bright star Has a disarming quality to it , depicting a romance not as torrid waves of drama but as something that is born awkward and steadily gains its holding . This is definitely a for-the-femmes flick with its story of romance , elegant dialog , fine chemistry between stars Whitshaw and Cornish and outstanding production design , lensing and costume . England 1818 seems like a Fragonard garden , the pastoral height of civilization . Conversation is witty ; summer feels eternal . Bright Star deals with the sonnets and the bonnets - top marks to the production and costume designer , Janet Patterson - with wit and restraint , and proves that a chaste romance need n't lack for passion , or poetry . It was so refreshing to see a story told about true love that contained honest chemistry . Ben Wishaw should be nominated for Oscar right now . It is a great film about a great love . ... an ordeal for the bulk of its hopelessly overlong running time ... Sensitively , slowly explores the interplay between a living , breathing muse and an inspired artist . Quietly makes a Regent-era , circumspect romance palpable . A literate , lyrical love story in the age of Hollywood crass . I must be dreaming . Despite being visually stunning , it 's as dry as hell . 	Jane Campion 's direction is as refined as her screenplay , and she gets the most out of her cast -- especially Abbie Cornish -- in this understated period drama .
bend it like beckham This fluffy confection is helium-light , hardly original , and completely predictable , but with a plucky heroine at its center , it is also a rare and wonderful thing . A laboriously manufactured sitcom that strings together a small army of cliches and stereotypes in its determination to become a guaranteed crowd-pleaser . That rare breed of crowd pleaser , one in which it does n't matter that you immediately know how it 's all going to end , because getting there is so much fun . The energy is infectious , the soundtrack is peppy , and the movie is a real kick A spirited , good-natured coming of age comedy that encompasses the immigrant experience , gender identity and family expectations with an engaging , natural ease . Why does there seem to always be a popular fluff film out there ? Because enough people out there are looking for just that , a fun film smothered in sweetness . Plays very well indeed in modern America , where our melting pot of immigrant cultures inevitably leads to clashes over assimilation and tradition . 'Es una cinta para sentirse bien , divertirse , pasar un buen rato y salir con una honesta sonrisa en la boca , dejando los problemas a un lado por un buen rato ' Some of its success may have been due to a cameo by soccer star David Beckham ... and girlfriend Posh Spice , but most of it has to do with the movie 's warmth , charm and understanding of things universal , such as family . Chadha 's film is so beautifully crafted that it reminds one just how good populist screen entertainment can be . 	Inspiring , compassionate , and with a sly undercurrent of social commentary , Bend It Like Beckham is a lively feel-good movie that genuinely charms .
get real In Steven , John , and their friends , Shore gives us individuals worth caring about in situations we can all relate to , regardless of our sexual orientation . When the film 's poised tone and occasional staginess threaten to intrude on the moving , sincere , recognizably true drama , the fact that the source material comes from a recent work , not some 400-year-old play , keeps it real . The film is grounded in genuine emotions and its knowing humour serves it well . I laughed like a drain . Charming and romantic enough to get by . Anchored by a touching lead performance by Silverstone . With a little refurbishment , Get Real could realize potential that gets buried in this movie by its banality . The film as a whole is involving , one which succeeds not only as entertainment but could be used as a primer for kids even on the junior high school level to teach toleration and , even better , acceptance of those whose ways of thinking less popular . Shore and Wilde have done an admirable job in re-imagining Wilde 's play as a movie , and they 've created a wrenching , thoughtful entertainment that incorporates considerable comic relief . Get Real is a sweet-natured coming-out comedy from England that seems to be coming out about 10 years too late . The movie bravely goes where too many other films have gone before . 	An authentic portrayal of homosexuality in high school , Get Real is an engaging dramedy that does n't sermonize its audience nor trivialize its characters .
one hour photo After years of rehashing the cuddly genie from Aladdin , Williams reminds us why he became a star in the first place . One Hour Photo may be better suited for the 24 hour rental than an evening at the movie theater . Robin Williams gives one of his best performances to date . An immaculate study in emotional isolation . Frightening realism is always scarier than gore , and Williams is frighteningly realistic . Its well of thorn and vinegar ( and simple humanity ) has long been plundered by similar works featuring the insight and punch this picture so conspicuously lacks . There are too many great things about 'One Hour Photo ' not to recommend it , but part of me wishes there 'd been some sort of decipherable payoff . 'Aunque recurre a ciertos clichs del gnero , la poderosa actuacin de Robin Williams perdona las fallas del guin . ' Exposing the ways we fool ourselves is One Hour Photo 's real strength . Williams ... gives a performance that is riveting in its recessiveness and , as a consequence , truly , deeply scary . 	Robin Williams is very effective in this creepy , well-shot thriller .
untouchables De Palma 's stylish crime-gangster tale is extremely enjoybale in large measure due to the set-pieces and homages to Sergio Leone and Eisenstein , but also to Sean Connery 's great performance for which he deservedly won the Supporting Actor Oscar . The Untouchables is a beautifully crafted portrait of Prohibition-era Chicago . A true crime classic film ; DePalma 's best . Kevin Costner is at his best here as crime-fighter Eliot Ness in this David Mamet-authored film audaciously directed by De Palma . Few old TV shows have been brought to the big screen with such lan as Brian De Palma 's majestic adaptation of the 60s small screen classic The Untouchables . Costner 's lack of charisma , Connery 's arrogance , and De Palma 's disinterest in his material add up to a pretty lame couple of hours . It 's an action film without much personality or drive and without enough imaginative detail to make the action gripping or meaningful . The film mostly revels in nostalgia and feels numb . Steeped in De Palma 's glorious violence and sinuous cinematography , but stripped of his tricky sensuality and his anarchic self-reflective wit . It goes to that place that all films aspiring to greatness must attain : the country of myth , where all the figures must be larger and more vivid than life . 	Slick on the surface but loaded with artful touches , Brian DePalma 's classical gangster thriller is a sharp look at period Chicago crime , featuring excellent performances from a top-notch cast .
altered states Mind-blowing imagery , solid Hurt performance ; a first-class freak-out An uneasy blend of the extreme visuals of director Ken Russell and the bloated dramaturgy of writer Paddy Chayefsky . Russell 's razzle-dazzle hallucinogenic style certainly hits bullseye . Dependably -- even exhilaratingly -- bizarre . Its strangeness , which borders cheerfully on the ridiculous , is its most enjoyable feature . No simple description could ever manage to convey the sheer visual assault of the film . It 's a movie that has to be seen , experienced . It 's got Russell 's trademark eccentricity ( read : slight bonkers-ness ) all over it , which you may take as a warning or a recommendation . As the proceedings briskly fly , the silliness of the entire endeavor becomes more readily apparent . [ Director ] Russell 's noisily grandiose swipe at psychedelia embellishes what is no more than the cosily familiar story of the obsessive Scientist Who Goes Too Far and Unwittingly Unleashes , etc . [ Director Russell ] fails to bring any clarity to the silly affair . William Hurt at his weirdest 	Extraordinarily daring for a Hollywood film , Altered States attacks the viewer with its inventive , aggressive mix of muddled sound effects and visual pyrotechnics .
cheaper by the dozen Formulas are essential for any family of 12 children . Cheaper by the Dozen follows an abundance of formulas , all used before . Steve Martin and Bonnie Hunt , reliable pros though they are , do n't stand a chance against the forces arrayed against them : the bald cliches , unspeakable dialogue , and cheap sentimentality of the script ... The laughs are strictly budgeted in this TV-tuned family outing . For a brief moment , I wished I was watching From Justin to Kelly again . Ocasionalmente engraado ; ininterruptamente xarope . Tries to be as wholesome as Ward Cleaver , but is about as sincere as Eddie Haskell . You want to like any movie that pairs Steve Martin and Bonnie Hunt , but Cheaper by the Dozen just keeps getting Lamer by the Minute . The script is slack and lazy , incapable of a satisfying resolution for even the most reliable family-movie plot devices like a mean bully or over-protective neighbors . Let 's just pray that this comedy does n't spawn a sequel entitled The Baker 's Dozen ... Oh boy is this a hard movie to sit through , and more times than none , it can be pretty damn stupid . 	In this family of twelve children , much chaos ensues , but little hilarity .
the death of mr lazarescu The Death of Mr. Lazarescu , for all its terrible matter-of-factness , produces tumultuous feelings of amazement and revolt . blending social commentary with spiritual allegory , it traces one man 's nocturnal descent into the Circle of Hell that is Romania 's healthcare service A film of universal small human moments and big-system failure . Stay with it and you 'll discover a devastatingly powerful blast at red tape and an achingly moving examination of what we will all have to face one day . The movie is a stunner , so hypnotic that the length hardly matters . It takes a while to adjust to its rhythm , but the Romanian film The Death of Mr. Lazarescu is a rich , strange and weirdly gratifying odyssey . Both sad and darkly funny , the film is so sharply conceived and richly populated that it often registers like a Frederick Wiseman documentary , even though everything is scripted and every part played by a professional . `` Extraordinary '' is used here in both meanings of the word : highly unusual and exceptional . The Death of Mr. Lazarescu would seem to give its plot away with its title . But , as the movie itself demonstrates , not everything is as it first seems . Distilled to a more endurable length , this insightful odyssey might best serve as a required text for graduating medical students and hospital administrators . 	Shot in naturalistic style , this is a powerful indictment of absurdity and indifference in the face of human suffering .
iris 2015 Iris is more than just a movie about an amusing lady who likes clothes an awful lot . It 's also a celebration of the revivifying power of creativity ... even if the film does n't get far beneath surface of its subject , it is still a pleasant , if slight , depiction of a human curio A glorious documentary fashionistas will want to study , frame by frame , while the rest of us are inspired by Apfel 's zest for life and fondness for costume jewellery on an epic scale . Full of life , wit and occasional wisdom , the film is as much about the energy of late director Albert Maysles ( Grey Gardens ) , whose final film this was . Traveling to vintage clothing stores from W. 27th St. to Palm Beach , Fla. , Apfel creates excursions that are like time spent with your coolest , funniest and most sage aunt . Her energy and life philosophy are inspiring , and will never go out of style . The chief virtue of `` Iris '' is its amiability - it 's a delight to spend time in Apfel 's company , and thanks to Albert Maysles , we can . There are some people from NYC and there are some people who make NYC . Iris is one of the latter . An admiring and amusing documentary . Maysles shows little interest in emphasizing anything , remaining far enough away to grasp the mechanics of his star without overt manipulation taking over the story . All you truly need know is she is a joy , a wonder , and terrific , as is this film . 	A small , insightful feature with a deceptively thoughtful thesis , Iris adds a bittersweet postscript to director Albert Maysles ' filmography .
labyrinth Unfortunately , this contemporary ( at least , for the era ) fairy tale , directed and co-written by Muppets creator Jim Henson , never sets a timely tone beyond the 1980s . It remains disappointingly tethered to yesteryear . An innovative mix of sophisticated puppetry and special effects , Labyrinth has all the components of classic myth . Muppet creator Jim Henson went dark , but not too serious in this entertaining , but meandering trifle . Henson 's vision and the wonderful bag of puppetry tricks he turns to are enough to make `` Labyrinth '' a winner . Henson 's imagination is boundless . But his movie has no pep . It 's a dream in neutral . A real masterpiece of puppetry and special effects , an absolutely gorgeous children 's fantasy movie . The chaotic narrative proceeds in fits and starts , and the sights and sounds are often dated , but somehow the film 's wit and wonder linger in the mind . The sheer magic of Jim Henson Plays like The Wizard of Oz or Alice in Wonderland crossed with a middling episode of `` The Muppet Show '' guest-starring David Bowie suffers from a distinct lack of charm . A remarkable achievement . 	While it 's arguably more interesting on a visual level , Labyrinth provides further proof of director Jim Henson 's boundless imagination .
the interrupters 2011 If the lack of progress in Chicago is upsetting , the reassurance of James ' unparalleled talent is inspiring . He is not just one of the United States ' most vital and humane filmmakers , but one of the world 's . The most heroic figures you 're likely to see on screen all year . A titanic piece of documentary filmmaking destined to have a real impact . Powerful , inspirational and suddenly incredibly topical , this is a superbly made , vitally important documentary that demands to be seen . Unmissable . Culled from 300 hours of footage , this is a brave and worthy effort , though at times it is difficult to understand what the participants are saying . It 's lazy critical shorthand to point out that good documentaries often feature better characterizations than even the best fiction films , but The Interrupters certainly justifies such a clich . Local activists commit , with varied results , to halting a tragic epidemic . It 's a job fraught with volatility and peril , taken with the understanding that some cases may ultimately end in failure . A sharper sense of structure might have produced a masterpiece , but it 's still vital , upsetting , and full of wary hope . A sobering but not hopeless look at how the Windy City is attempting to turn around a rising tide of street shooting , through the work of a unique group called CeaseFire . James ' camera investigates the story in the same detailed , organic manner he used in Hoop Deams . 	Impeccably crafted and edited , The Interrupters is a tough and honest documentary about street violence that truly has the power to inspire change .
tibet cry of the snow lion It is a sad but important story that all should see . Part political thriller , part National Geographic travelogue , Tom Peosay 's documentary is a distressing look at China 's 50-year repression of the people of Tibet . A fascinating and reasonably comprehensive portrait . The film is not perfect . It often repeats itself and could have benefitted from more voices of those with firsthand knowledge of the indecencies . Haunting documentary . ... heartbreaking ... An emotional look at a battered land and a resilient people . Makes a valuable contribution to our understanding of a people that the world must never be allowed to forget , no matter how much their oppressors would prefer us to do just that . ... a damning indictment of one of the world 's dirtiest open secrets . Gives you a sympathetic understanding of what 's going on in Tibet , it may be one-sided , but it 's effective and interesting . 	Makes no effort to do more than present one side of its story , but does it so passionately and persuasively that the viewer almost can not help but be moved .
10008606-eye When it comes to showing something to end the second-rate horror drought , The Eye is blind . The most vivid aspect of The Eye is its poster image , that of a huge female eye with a human hand gripping the lower lid from the inside . The least vivid aspect is the way Jessica Alba delivers a simple line of expository dialogue . Turns out seeing dead people can still be kind of a thrill . A terrifying treat for horror junkies , as Alba 's nervous wreck visionary wards off being attacked by apartments and restaurants , while dealing with a bad case of occult organ rejection . Brothers Danny and Oxide Pang 's unnerving spook show from 2002 has been translated into a clunky , aimless interpretation that leaves you with just one overpowering thought : are Jessica Alba 's lips for real ? The Eye remake rolls off Hollywood 's Asian horror assembly line like expired goods that have been repackaged . Yet another inferior remake of an Asian horror film . Alba is very good at looking very good ... but she 's quite terrible at looking very scared , or very traumatized ... Quite faithful until the dumbed-down Americanized ending , yet time and again the treatment is inferior . Effectively creepsome until it bogs down somewhat in plot explication . 	Featuring wooden performances and minimal scares , The Eye is another tedious remake of an Asian horror film .
thirteen conversations about one thing Thirteen Conversations encircles the viewer in a comforting , open-hearted humanism . It 's a quiet , modest piece of work , but no less lovely for it . An intelligent , earnest , intimate film that drops the ball only when it pauses for blunt exposition to make sure you 're getting its metaphysical point . A major achievement and something to get excited about . Those who like to be intellectually and emotionally provoked , and who do n't need action or hysterics to achieve it , will find this film sticks with you for a long time . The dialogue is more vibrant and thoughtful than what you 'll find in most movies , and gimmick free . 13 Conversations may be a bit too enigmatic and overly ambitious to be fully successful , but Sprecher and her screenwriting partner and sister , Karen Sprecher , do n't seem ever to run out of ideas . [ A ] rare film that has you thinking about the characters as if they were real people . The sisterly writing team of Karen and Jill Sprecher create that deadly form of cinema , the play mistaken for a movie . The movie has a soft , percolating magic , a deadpan suspense . 13 Conversations About One Thing is a very unusual but thoroughly accessible film . 	Thirteen Conversations About One Thing is an intelligent and poignant look at lives intersecting .
crimson gold Works better as a sociological study than as drama . Panahi seems at last to speak with his own beguiling , cryptically beautiful expressiveness , which grows ever more absorbing with each of its purposefully irresolute turns . ... a slow-moving but ultimately intriguing character study . It 's the singular presence of Hussein Emadeddin -- a nonprofessional like all the other actors Panahi has used in his films -- that gives the film much of its soul and mystery . It 's every bit as outwardly unruffled as its hero , but inwardly it seethes with the very same gradually accumulated rage . A devastating and beautiful film . The leisurely pace and fatalism become riveting , and the film takes on an unnerving , unblinking intimacy , even as the characters remain distant . An engrossing tale of class differences that reveals tiny details of one man 's descent into hell . An eloquent look at a man made less human by the world around him . As overly familiar as director Jafar Panahi 's setup and delivery seems , its freshness is in its setting . It settles into the typical reflective mode of Iranian films , but something is happening : A human being is slowly , sullenly , silently approaching his combustion point . 	A slow-burning , riveting film about Iranian class differences .
sherlock holmes 2009 A loud , stupid film . There is clear chemistry between the leads and watching them bicker is the film 's strongest appeal . Sir Arthur Conan Doyle 's legendary sleuth gets a cinematic adrenaline shot for this wildly entertaining and action-packed mystery . Elementary , My dear readers . But not in a nice way . The franchise has got itself two cracking characters and one enticing setting . Now all it needs is a half-decent story to go with them . Proof that Guy Richie can still make good films , though it 's not without flaws . This new Sherlock Holmes movie asks the question , `` What if Sherlock Holmes belonged to Fight Club ? '' Purists can , and certainly will , spend much time arguing how much is true to the material and how much was changed but the rest wo n't , and should n't care . The fact is , Sherlock Holmes is just down right entertaining . Sherlock Holmes has something for everybody ; an accessible film is exactly what Guy Ritchie 's been looking for . It 's great fun watching Robert Downey Jr. sink his teeth -- and everything else -- into the role of a brainy , brawny Sherlock Holmes . 	Guy Ritchie 's directorial style might not be quite the best fit for an update on the legendary detective , but Sherlock Holmes benefits from the elementary appeal of a strong performance by Robert Downey , Jr .
mummy tomb of the dragon emperor Strange how dreary it all is , and how tired Fraser seems . Fraser , who at 39 looks perhaps five years older than this kid , needed a wholesome offspring-sidekick like a third arm . Then again , it 's not clear that the world needed a third Mummy movie . It is one of those movies for which you make a mental check list of familiar sequences you 've seen in previous efforts ... Where is Meryl Streep ? After all , 'The Mummy : Tomb of the Dragon Emperor ' seems to have everything else in its mix , including a three-headed dragon ( and ) Abominable SnowMEN . a slipshod spectacle None of the action sequences generate any excitement at all and the in-between stuff is so wilfully nutty that it falls completely flat . With an adventure-fantasy , a certain amount of creative license is to be expected -- even encouraged -- but this third installment of the Mummy franchise is nearly swamped by distracting lapses in logic . O tipo de filme concebido com uma calculadora em mos . I know that dragging old franchises out of mothballs is all the rage these days , but quality control still counts for something . Parts of the movie are fun , mostly due to Fraser 's and Bello 's winning attitudes . But there is too much slapstick , too much infantile humor , too much messy editing and an overload of special effects . 	With middling CG effects and a distinct lack of fun , The Mummy : Tomb of the Dragon Emperor finds the series past its prime .
world is not enough James Bond is back and as sexy as ever ! The most satisfying Bond film since 1987 's The Living Daylights . ... ultimately comes off as a superior James Bond adventure ... A frustrating combination of the all-too-common and the distractingly absent . A splendid comic thriller . ... suffers from a plot that meanders , a villain with little to accomplish , heroines we care nothing about , and a frenetic tempo that ends up more tedious than stirring . The latest 007 extravaganza has enough plot developments , double-entendres , emotional underpinnings and , of course , Bond girls , action scenes and explosions to furnish at least a couple of Bondfests , with plenty left over for an episode of Nash Bridges . The World Is Not Enough is solid , formula entertainment -- but it 's a formula that still works . If you 're expecting this pre-millennial outing to taste any different than the adventures we 've swallowed in the past , you 're simply in the wrong restaurant . In this outing , Bond gets lost in the big shuffle of pyro-technics and blasts . 	Plagued by mediocre writing , uneven acting , and a fairly by-the-numbers plot , The World Is Not Enough is partially saved by some entertaining and truly Bond-worthy action sequences .
silent hill Silent Hill starts out at point A and then goes so quickly , loudly and visually over-the-top that it flies completely off the rails into its own glorious weirdness . When everything starts being explained , the mystery evaporates and the world of the game loses its eerie bafflement . the closest you 'll get to actually having a nightmare in a movie theatre outside of a midnight screening of David Lynch 's Eraserhead . Whilst not as atrocious as some other films that have opened this year , the truely woeful story and quality of Silent is saved only by its occasion moments of visual flair , and its all over effective creepy atmosphere . As a nightmarish vision of hell on earth , Silent Hill is a triumph of production and art design . As a coherent story , it 's little more than a string of video game scenarios . No thrills on this hill Just like the game , which is an achievement and a disappointment all in one . Director Christophe Gans charges , hell-bent , right over the plot and winds up with not much more than an oppressive 125-minute running time . Visually arresting but only sporadically enthralling . Silent Hill is like an endurance test to get to the `` 'truth ' , but it 's ultimately a gyp because it still does n't make sense when you get there . 	Silent Hill is visually impressive , but as with many video game adaptations , it 's plagued by inane dialogue , a muddled plot , and an overlong runtime .
five easy pieces I expected a lot more from this film . It 's basically a rambling boredom piece . Boasting a career best performance by Jack Nicholson in the lead role , Rafelson 's movie is a penetrating study of American alienation . The feature is anchored by Nicholson 's performance , in which he demonstrates his unique ability to swiftly shape-shift from a cheeky sweet-heart into a volatile beast . An American entry into the French New Wave starring a compelling Jack Nicholson . It 's a great work of the Discover America Seventies . moves from scenes of quiet desperation to moments of great black humor It often seems endless in the possibilities of its human observation . The flaws of this acutely self-conscious 1970 road picture grow more obvious with every passing year , but so does its passion and eloquence . The result is less a story and more a collection of incidents and character studies , all of which inform each other and extend our understanding of Nicholson 's mode of survival : flight . It has n't aged as well as some of its 1970s counterparts , but it 's still a heartbreaking film and a minor classic . 	An important touchstone of the New Hollywood era , Five Easy Pieces is a haunting portrait of alienation that features one of Jack Nicholson 's greatest performances .
superman the movie Superman still remains the best superhero movie ever made , full of humor , heart , and an iconic performance by Christopher Reeve as the Man of Steel . A little dated , but still glitzy fun . Too jokey to be more than mildly amusing . ... a studio product , certainly , but also something that could have grown from one of Smallville 's sun-kissed cornfields . By keeping the spectacular possibilities open , through the opening scenes of the destruction of Krypton , and the subsequent growth to manhood of the planet 's only son on the plains of the Midwest , the film allows naivet and knowingness to coexist . Super-nostalgic superhero adventure still soars . Faithful to the story with a great cast . I DO believe a man can fly . Arguably still the most solid 'origin ' and emotion-churning superhero story on the big screen . Manages to capture the pure heart and spirit of this comic book Americana . This movie is big , exciting and funny . 	Superman deftly blends humor and gravitas , taking advantage of the perfectly cast Christopher Reeve to craft a loving , nostalgic tribute to an American pop culture icon .
lore `` Lore '' is the sort of movie you 'd already expect to rip your heart out , but that does n't diminish the tragedy when it does arrive . Proves that there is always room for another [ World War II ] story if it can be presented in an original and unexpected fashion . At once literal and yet nimbly metaphoric , `` Lore '' condenses its extensive subject into a cinematic poem that is easily apprehended . Rosendahl ... provides both narrative and emotional continuity to a film whose deliberate pace and fragmented presentation of reality might otherwise prove exasperating . Although there are moments that push the story a bit beyond credulity , Shortland has created something remarkable by forcing us to find within ourselves sympathy for this would-be Aryan princess . [ Director Cate ] Shortland directs with an almost hypnotic focus , favoring Lore 's immediate experience over the big picture . It 's this mature take on the subject matter that makes Lore the finest Australian film of the year . This striking , slow-building drama ... uses fractured , impressionistic imagery as a mirror of moral dislocation as the children make their way through an unfamiliar landscape . Lore , from Australian director Cate Shortland , proceeds like a long-ago fairy tale , dark-hued , grounded in real-life 20th-century horrors . Remarkable . Raw , disorienting and it never bothers to tell you what it can instead show . 	Newcomer Saskia Rosendahl gives an astonishingly assured performance in the title role , and director Cate Shortland establishes a delicate , disturbingly ominous tone in the powerful World War II drama Lore .
1072957-freeway Freeway is not good satire , it 's not good comedy , and it 's not in the least bit entertaining . The imperfect teenager fairy tale for the 1990s . Shockingly dark and nasty take on the Red Riding Hood tale . The great cast brings light-hearted humor and credibility to what could otherwise have been seen as a sickly exploitative ( though well-written and directed ) script . 'Little Red Riding Hood , ' my , how you 've grown ... A hip , corrosive and often hilarious entertainment , the movie strikes another blow for the American independent film . Darkly humorous , witty and nasty , Freeway is an original take on the Red Riding Hood fairytale , featuring a wonderful performance by the teenage Reese Witherspoon , before she became a star Freeway glints here and there with dark humor amounting to a knowing wink that undercuts the cautionary tale at its heart and the seriousness of its graphic sociology . It 's just the sort of thing Oliver Stone strove so hard to achieve in Natural Born Killers , and [ writer/director Matthew ] Bright pulls it off effortlessly . Both grimly funny and thought-provoking . 	A modern update on the tale of Little Red Riding Hood , Freeway is an audacious black comedy with a star-making performance from the young Reese Witherspoon .
28 weeks later A thrilling and chilling and sometimes grisly zombie movie that occasionally loses its way in genre conventions but generally keeps you locked into a heightened tension . If there will ever be a 28 Months Later , we can hope it will be just as smart . Even for a zombie-ghoul movie , its idiocy is beyond the pale . Exciting , action-packed and superbly directed . More of the same , with decidedly mixed results . 28 Weeks Later contains many elements from the first film while also packing a much stronger emotional punch and ferocious intensity . Most affecting are moments of quietude that stand in contrast to the loud , busy horror scenes . Fresnadillo and cinematographer Enrique Chediak find intriguing angles to highlight the eeriness of the setting . Still well equipped to rip your face off . 28 Weeks Later underlines the fact that when you come back from the grave , you 're not always looking so fresh . Which is more dangerous or contagious ? Zombie cannibalism or murderously aggressive US foreign policy ? When a gory movie suggests that choice , you know the sci-fi genre has reached a new level of nihilistic cynicism . 	While 28 Weeks Later lacks the humanism that made 28 Days Later a classic , it 's made up with fantastic atmosphere and punchy direction .
1127787-big fish Plays to Burton 's strengths as an auteur of fantasy colliding with reality . A compelling look at the relationships between fathers and sons , and the child coming to terms with the parent 's mortality . Small potatoes ... a disjointed assemblage of extravagant effects , some of which are momentarily delightful but which together do n't add up to very much . Works sporadically but then falls into another long lull . Few filmmakers know more about exaggeration than Tim Burton . Do n't you mean Big Turkey , Tim ? Big Fish is Tim Burton at his least imaginative . A whopper of a movie , told by the master of the modern-day fairy tale , Tim Burton . Feelgood without being overly sentimental ; romantic without being cloying ; moving without being mawkish . ... there 's never been a less ambitious Tim Burton film 	A charming father-and-son tale filled with typical Tim Burton flourishes .
traitor Other than Samir , most of the characters are oversimplified placeholders with little depth , but Cheadle gives you someone to latch onto and care for . You also sort of despise him , because he may well be doing more harm than good . It tells a good , snakelike story , slithering in some unpredictable directions . We watch for the sake of the chase , and while it 's a chase that certainly proves better than most , it 's also one that is good enough to have been even better than that . The first things to go in Cheadle 's portrayal of such a knotted , inward man are spontaneity and a sense of humor . More carefully measured than many of its American contemporaries , Traitor does n't match the heights of Syriana , but sits comfortably above , say , The Kingdom for mapping out the complexities of its issues . Let 's just say this is a well paced thriller with a strong cast -- it 's good to see Guy Pearce on screen -- but the terrorist threat which obsessed the recent Bush administration has been dwarfed by a couple of things ... [ A ] tense , talky and unusually thoughtful spy thriller . A film that aims to examine Islam in order to separate the true believers from those who have hijacked it for terrorism . ( Sound boring ? It 's also a taut thriller . ) Talented actor Don Cheadle brings yet another angst-driven character to life in 'Traitor , ' a looka t the question of whether the means ever justifies the end in killing . A globe-trotting conspiracy thriller that is a little too complicated for its own good . 	Despite another reliable performance from Don Cheadle , Traitor suffers from too many cliches and an unfocused narrative .
flipped Flipped is the kind of small , special movie that wraps you up in so much warmth , humor and humanity that it will leave you wishing that stories like this were n't so rare . Flipped is Rob Reiner 's best film in 18 years . I suppose some people may respond to this nostalgic ode to innocence and chastity , but I found it insufferable . I ca n't say anything nice about Flipped , a painfully clumsy adaptation of a tween novel by Wendelin Van Draanen . Rob Reiner 's best effort in more than ten years . It 's great to see Rob Reiner make a film that is every inch as warm and human and enjoyable as the films he made his name with in the early part of his career . This is the movie version of comfort food from your grandmother : Familiar , wholesome and rather bland . The importance of understanding varying perspectives is always worth communicating , and Flipped , despite its cloying approach , manages to deliver this idea with a decent amount of sincerity intact . Funny , fresh and totally engaging , it 's a nostalgic gem . If the feature does n't latch on to the senses immediately with its sugared claws , it 's a long , ugly 85 minutes of dreadful behavior to endure , waiting for an ending that never arrives . 	While not without its nostalgic charms , Rob Reiner 's sometimes awkward adaptation of Wendelin Van Draanen 's childhood novel does n't reach the heights of the director 's earlier work like Stand By Me .
the-fall-2008 Tarsem 's film is breathtakingly imaginative , but at times you 're left feeling like you 've eaten too many sweets . A fairy-tale that 's fractured in ways that seem perversely calculated to alienate us even as it tries to draw us in ... a cinematic pratfall . This is a feast for the eyes and a famine for the brain . The scope of Tarsem 's imagination and vision and the delightful pairing of Pace and Untaru creates an eclectic fantasy tale unlike anything we 've since The Adventures of Baron Munchausen . Shot piecemeal over the course of four years on locations in 18 countries , The Fall is a genuine labor of love -- and a real bore . Gorgeous , inert and dull . My initial cynicism was steadily broken down , completely undone by a five-year-old Romanian actress named Catinca Untaru . ... deserves three-and-a-half stars for its dazzling opening sequence alone . There 's no doubt that Tarsem 's a visionary director . Now he needs to envision a worthwhile script for himself . It 's rare to see such an unfiltered personal vision become a blindingly beautiful reality . The Fall is a true work of art and one of the most beautiful films I 've ever seen . 	More visually elaborate than the fragmented story can sometimes support , The Fall walks the line between labor of love and filmmaker self-indulgence .
lemony snicket Heinrichs helps take your mind off the slack direction and the letdown of a climax , which ought to make the kiddies hurl Gummi Bears at the screen . This overwrought dud should n't have left DreamWorks ' CGI studio . Demonstrates what happens when you take a clever idea and run it into the ground . Sublime . I loved it . And I 'll love it when I see it again . The visuals are dark and ominous without getting totally terrifying -- the characters feel real , but their environment is off-kilter enough to remind you that this world is one of imagination . How come the children are American , yet all their relatives are British ? Sometimes Carrey 's not-so-funny improvisations are his own undoing , as when he sits in a high-backed chair and feigns electrocution . But more often the children ... steal the show . If your kids would be pleased at the thought of your death , maybe this movie will show them the grass is not always greener on the other side . I suspect it will disappoint the books ' older fanbase , who 'd been hoping for a screen villain that didn 1/2 1/2t mellow the macabreness of the book version . You ca n't make entertainment lemonade out of this lemon of a movie . 	Although it softens the nasty edges of its source material , Lemony Snicket 's A Series of Unfortunate Events is a gothic visual treat , and it features a hilariously manic turn from Jim Carrey as the evil Count Olaf .
amour fou A daring , dark satire strewn with allusions to modern times . Austrian writer-director Jessica Hausner has an unerring talent for examining , skeptically but never cynically , grand notions about destiny ... It 's notable more for its elegant , painterly tableaux , classical music and historical costumes than an immersive story addressing the period 's politics and social mores . Somber , emotionally engaging and haunting with exquisite , awards-worthy cinematography , set design and costume design . It is a strange , clenched movie : weirdly compelling , with an undertone of absurdity worthy of Woody Allen 's Love and Death . Hausner has cast the movie brilliantly : We know volumes about wife , husband , and poet just from their faces and the way they move . Mostly , it 's just expertly bloodless-a series of beautifully composed tableaux stripped of all passion . Jessica Hausner 's Amour Fou frames German Romanticism from a female perspective , gently poking fun at the true story of the selfish , pompous poet Heinrich von Kleist and his suicide pact with Henriette Vogel in 1811 . The colorful costumes and dcor have more character than the blandly coached cast , and the stiff , tableau-like images are a vain artistic pose . The mise-en-scene is appropriately suffocating , marked by scrupulous production design and rigid , geometric framing , yet a savage , liberating wit lies beneath the surface . 	Amour Fou risks overpowering its deceptively impactful story with its remarkable visuals , but ultimately forms a fascinating whole .
cave of the yellow dog The movie is very beautiful and also very slow , mostly due to the relatively primitive setting . At the same time , [ director Byambasuren ] Davaa also concentrates blissfully on those fleeting moments of life that most movies excise in favor of forwarding the plot . This gentle , observant storytelling is perfectly appropriate for kids . A quiet gem , suitable for all ages . Add in a wisecracking sidekick with a Brooklyn accent , and the Mongolian drama `` Cave of the Yellow Dog '' could be remade as a Disney cartoon . The Cave of the Yellow Dog is simple , powerful , back-to-basics filmmaking . It 's a classic family dilemma made fresh by the setting and the realistic circumstances . How wonderful it is to encounter a film like this , with its sweet simplicities and its quiet observations . ... a movie without commercial pizzazz but with plenty of art-film treasures . One of the film 's joyful fascinations is the chance to see kids being imaginative kids . At times the film 's Buddhist lessons feel a bit forced , but the naturalistic performances Davaa has coaxed from a real-life Mongolian family , and her intimate understanding of their culture and values , give this sensitive portrayal its heft . 	A sparse , hauntingly beautiful journey across continents and cultures .
azumi2003 Azumi may be an outstanding assassin , but the makers of this movie killed any chances of her being the next great action hero . Well , this particular fantasy surely lost its novelty value a while back , and frankly never did much for me anyhow . Plot and character development are quickly sacrificed to over-the-top action , but with a miniskirted menace in the lead , it 's safe to say that fans , at least , will love it . Kitamura 's visual power thankfully never drowns out the story 's . This is fun because it 's soo damn stupid . The tone is bleak and the comic-book violence relentless , but the wirework and Yuta Morokaji 's stunt choreography are impressive . Ryuhei Kitamura is 37 , but he makes films like a 15-year-old fanboy . That is , he has no sense of story , his visual style is basically point-and-shoot , the boys are cool and rebellious and the girls are cute . For a pure ice-water jolt of action-movie insanity , few things I 've seen in recent years come close to the sheer splatter-fest spectacle of Azumi . Azumi carves her way through a body count that rivals any three average samurai flicks . Unfortunately , she leaves as much filler dialogue as corpses in her wake . An extraordinary film . 	This adaptation of the popular manga series offers exquisitely choreographed violence -- and little else .
north face Awesome scenery and bourgeois banality combine to produce an overlong , occasionally scary film about extreme mountain climbing . A straightforward , wickedly suspenseful Man vs . Nature saga of the type that rarely gets made any more . Cleverly playing on the genre 's propagandistic ties to the Third Reich , the film reflects the tragic arc of National Socialism in each ominous crevasse and in every grandiloquent gesture . The word `` gripping '' does n't do it justice . ... once the climb commences , the film catapults into a heart-pounding ( and heart-breaking ) action thriller of the highest order . It is impossible not to put yourself in the boots of the mountaineers clinging to a sheer , icy rock face during a blizzard that threatens to send them into oblivion . Forget Hitler , Fanck , and Barthes . North Face is the most exhilarating thriller of the season . The romantic subplot is underwritten and overwrought . More compelling is ... the impressively harrowing mountain footage . A well-crafted , visceral piece of historical filmmaking . Exactly what the magic of movies is about , giving you a risk-free front-row seat that still manages to make you feel like you 're caught up in the action . 	A tense and gripping spectacular piece of snow-bound historical German film-making .
live and let die Two hours long and anti-climactic , but Bond fans wo n't be disappointed . In the longest tenure of any James Bond performer , Roger Moore would certainly have higher highs and lower lows . And while it strays from Bond formula in ways good and bad , it 's a fine introduction to a 007 more prone to crack wise than crack heads . Live and Let Die is not only a terrible James Bond flick , it 's a terrible movie period . A true guilty pleasure among Bond films . I can see how many people can be entertained by this ludicrous film , but not because it 's good . It features an outstanding performance from Moore and has an enjoyably bad Blaxploitation thing going on here , but not much else . Live and Let Die has been especially well photographed and edited , and it makes clever and extensive use of its good title song , by Paul and Linda McCartney . I know I probably should n't like Live and Let Die , but I do . This crackpot entry , the eighth , in the long-running James Bond series , is figuratively all over the map ... [ Blu-ray ] One of the last great , funky James Bond films before the eighties brought us a tamer , more plastic Bond . Tacky and cartoonish . The only thing about Live and Let Die to weather the test of time is its title song . 	While not one of the highest-rated Bond films , Live and Let Die finds Roger Moore adding his stamp to the series with flashes of style and an improved sense of humor .
stigmata Some of the stuff is so ridiculous it inadvertently becomes a comedy . A joke ! Surprisingly serious and intelligent food for thought about faith and supernatural phenomena . Stigmata is an unusually intelligent and original thriller . Melodramatic junk . It 's for what you might call gnostic multiplex sheep , those of little faith but much gullibility . Not remotely scary , unless one considers the direction , script , most of the acting ! The scariest thing about this appalling and seemingly endless movie is that you paid for your ticket and now have to sit through it . A brutal , oft-unpleasant thriller , punctuated by quick cutting and a loud late-'90s alternative soundtrack . Over-the-top imagery , music , and rapid-fire editing are the culprits that stigmatize the story . Half-baked mess ! 	The story is unconvincing and the acting is weak .
we dont live here anymore Too desultory . A bracingly mature look at the messiness of matrimony . Pretty potent . A terribly slim , pretentious movie that wallows in the monotonous , far-from- fascinating angst of its self-involved characters . We Do n't Live Here Anymore convincingly dissects the impact of adultery on two shaky marriages in a small New England college town . A decent ending would 've gone a long way to making this good film near perfect . An intricate drama that derives tragedy from emotional indifference , immaturity and fatigue , qualities that have spelled doom for more than a few marriages . ... feels like a freshly unearthed treasure from a more sophisticated era . All lingering glances and electrically supercharged silences , it 's a tiny film of enormous power . Striking in the way it evokes tension from ordinary conversations and relationship details . Like d.p . Mayse Alberti 's overemphasis on dark interiors and gloomy exteriors , the music dresses an already dismal soap opera in somber tones that leave us vaguely despondent rather than caring . 	We Do n't Live Here Anymore is often overly moody and grim , but it 's made watchable by the strong performances for its four principal actors .
10009596-old dogs Really , what it affirms is that studio executives are already making movies for the future-audience from Idiocracy . It is an irredeemable affair . You 've never experienced horror until you 've seen Robin Williams in a Speedo getting a spray tan . With John Travolta and Robin Williams mugging as best buds who care for two 7-year-olds , this stinky mutt of a movie pees on your leg and tells you it 's comedy . Painful . a strong cast fighting a script that is labored , stale , and obvious Add scary music , and some scenes could come straight from a horror movie , with no need for re-editing , as when Williams is trapped in a tanning booth , or when Williams slams a car trunk 's lid onto a woman 's arms , like Terry O'Quinn did in 'Stepfather 2 . ' Kids who suffer from progeria may be able to relate to Old Dogs , but it 's hard to imagine anyone else fully appreciating it . At least Luis Guzman and Dax Shepard were smart enough to avoid being credited for their roles in it . It 's aggressively awful , and manages to push its worst gags so numbingly off the scale that we 're left slack-jawed in disbelief 	Its cast tries hard , but Old Dogs is a predictable , nearly witless attempt at physical comedy and moral uplift that misses the mark on both counts .
one flew over the cuckoos nest One Flew over the Cuckoo 's Nest is an earnest attempt to make a serious film . But in the end the movie backs away from both the human reality and the cloudy but potent symbolism that Ken Kesey found in the asylum . Nicholson 's best work Jack Nicholson stars in an outstanding characterization of Ken Kesey 's asylum anti-hero , McMurphy , and Milos Forman 's direction of a superbly-cast film is equally meritorious . Cast , direction , score , look -- perfect , perfect , perfect , perfect . Among the greatest films of all time . This superlative 2-disc set ranks among my favorite DVDs of 2002 , and I absolutely recommend it as a purchase . A stirring indictment of how we determine who 's sane and who 's crazy . excellent in every way The movie is both timeless and indicative of its own era , a period of anti-establishment movements . As good as Nicholson and Fletcher are , the film simply would n't work without the ensemble cast that incorporates Forman 's improvisational style 	The onscreen battle between Jack Nicholson and Louise Fletcher serves as a personal microcosm of the culture wars of the 1970s -- and testament to the director 's vision that the film retains its power more than three decades later .
click A movie with a lot of wasted potential . It looks like it was made by a bunch of schmucks . The only thing about this movie I did n't hate was Hasselhoff . It 's a movie that shoots lazily for Capraesque and settles happily for Crapesque . Outside of a running joke about Sandler 's dog humping a giant stuffed animal and the usual anger/pain humor that runs through his work , the film devotes most of its energy to a drearily sentimental lesson about what 's really important . Click will surely dishearten even Sandler 's most forgiving faithful , while putting the casual viewer right to sleep . Adam Sandler 's latest effort is a clumsy , inconsistent fusion of the lowbrow comedy that made him a star and his more recent , unworkable stabs at drama in Punch-Drunk Love and Spanglish . Yet another uninspired Adam Sandler goof-fest with a long suffering leading lady , mildly bawdy gags , and a predictable ending . Half your typical Sandler comedy albeit light on the laughs , the other half an overly preachy sentimental sci-fi take on Capra 's 'It 's a Wonderful Life ' Click has been horribly written , ploddingly paced and indifferently performed . And it makes the mistake of taking itself seriously . [ A ] painfully generic and gimmicky comedy . Relentlessly interminable , predictable and drowsy in concept . Sandler 's man-child routine has already run its course ad nauseam . 	This latest Adam Sandler vehicle borrows shamelessly from It 's A Wonderful Life and Back To The Future , and fails to produce the necessary laughs that would forgive such imitation .
mongol Mongol is a throwback to a more respectable tradition . The largeness of its scope arises naturally from the material , not the budget . The movie earns its stature . Probably the only movie you 'll ever see that opens in '1192 -- Year of the Black Rat . ' ... Bodrov 's engaging vision of Genghis Khan in several moments almost feels like the silent movie epics by the Russian cinematic pioneer Sergei Eisenstein . If a hero is to deserve this much spectacle , he ought to be at least a little bit interesting . The founder of history 's greatest contiguous empire gets an appropriately bravehearted movie , an exciting actioner from Russian director Sergei Bodrov . Visually stunning , historically interesting , and very entertaining . With its breathtaking landscapes , bloody battles , bitter betrayals and an aching love story , Mongol is a sumptuously crafted epic Bold , epic battle-happy movie that humanizes the world-conqueror and gives him plenty to be aggressive about . The movie would be an unbearably grueling endurance test for the audience and the hero were it not for the arid beauty of the Great Steppe and the sweep of the battles , rendered with splatters of gore that lend a Jackson Pollock-like excitement to [ it ] . 'Vast landscapes , savage battles , sparring blood brothers and a poignant love story form the essence of Sergei Bodrov 's spectacular epic , among whose achievements are its extraordinary sense of place and time . 	The sweeping Mongol mixes romance , family drama , and enough flesh-ripping battle scenes to make sense of Ghenghis Khan 's legendary stature .
once upon a time in mexico Depp tosses off nearly as many deadpan quips as he did in Pirates and steals the movie from everyone else in the cast , including a rugged Antonio Banderas , who is perfect for the role of a man haunted by grief . Maverick Robert Rodriguez gets back to his old R-rated tricks , but this time he 's more mature , stylish and bloody inventive . Rodriguez is less filmmaker now than freakshow , but at least it can be said that freakshows are n't boring . gaping logic holes ( baddies who kick heroes while they 're down instead of killing them ) and lethargic pacing make this more like That Dull Time We Spent on Vacation in Mexico Great cinema this is n't , but it looks good , has a lot of humor and style and stars Depp . The first thought as the credits roll will be how you 'd love to see Johnny Depp and that kid in another movie . Rodriguez may do nothing but all pulp , all the time , but he delivers it with unquestionable zest and skill here . For all it 's flash and dazzle `` Once Upon a Time in Mexico '' is too episodic and splintered , but a potential spinoff for Depp 's blind assassin could be promising It does have Depp to buoy it up just long enough to keep audience interest alive until the film gets to the meat of the story -- the action . As an iconic image , [ Depp ] captures the feeling of Rodriguez 's movie : blinded and shooting randomly in all directions . A fractured fairy tale for whom we happily suspend disbelief , right up to the best-not- believe-it 'The End . ' 	Violent , pulpy , loopy fun , with Depp stealing the show .
the wolfpack There is a train-wreck quality to this film . The story is so astounding , you ca n't look away . Their Reservoir Dogs-a multi-character story ideal for brothers-is a lovely homage , the 'Stuck in the Middle With You ' torture scene a standout . Not since Grey Gardens has a film invited us into such a strange , barely-functioning home and allowed us to gawk without reservation . What if all you knew of the world came from Hollywood movies ? That 's a loaded question - and Crystal Moselle 's gripping doc runs with it . You wo n't be able to pull your eyes off the screen . It 's stunning ( and amazingly well done ) and hard to believe . Yet it 's all true , as far as we know . We are presented with something peculiar , that 's noteworthy mainly for it 's just being weird . Frankly , it 's not weird enough to completely engage viewers for more than 90 minutes . What a sad , strange , intoxicating movie . In its gentle , intimate , sometimes goofy way , 'The Wolfpack ' is a grueling experience . Sometimes , all you need is a great subject to make a great documentary - or a willingness to chase after total strangers . Crystal Moselle aims her cinematic arrow at the hearts of the same choir that Andrew Jarecki 's stunted aesthetics preach to . 	Offering a unique look at modern fears and our fascination with film , The Wolfpack is a fascinating -- and ultimately haunting -- urban fable .
time travelers wife This magical movie hits you in the emotional breadbasket and holds you in its enveloping grasp until its tearjerking conclusion . I 'd watch the vibrant Rachel McAdams and Eric Bana in anything , but The Time Traveler 's Wife is pushing it . Combining elements of sweepingly romantic time travel movies like Somewhere In Time and the supernatural swoon of Ghost , this first-rate and spellbinding drama is out to prove true love can overcome any obstacle-in this world or the next . By the end , I finally cared about Henry and Clare . But I wish the filmmakers had pulled me in about an hour and a half sooner . Where the movie really goes wrong is in issues of tone and pace , in decisions about what to leave out and what to keep in -- all of which falls at the director 's feet . She 's willing to put up with a dude who disappears on a whim and leaves her alone for days and weeks on end ? Sure , when he comes back he 's naked and looks like Eric Bana , but still . It could have been thought-provoking drama , but settles for being a novelette-ish tear-jerker . I hate the dismissive phrase 'chick flick ' but that 's what this is , and it could have been a whole lot more . If you can willingly suspend your disbelief at its premise , you will find yourself moved at this love story for the ages Perhaps the book fills in the blanks and emotional beats , but this Wife is n't really worth your time or travel . The problem is n't the timeline -- it 's everything else . 	Though it may satisfy fans of the novel , The Time Traveler 's Wife 's plot contrivances and illogical narrative hamper its big screen effectiveness .
raiders of the lost ark With an unforgettable opening sequence in which our hero flees through a trap-filled tunnel from a great ball of rock , Raiders Of The Lost Ark is a film which wastes no time and never lets go of our attention . ... a crackerjack fantasy-adventure that shapes its pulp sensibilities and cliff-hanging serial origins into an exhilarating escapist entertainment that will have broad-cased summer audiences in the palm of its hand . Raiders of the Lost Ark has it all -- or , anyway , more than enough to transport moviegoers back to the dazzling , thrill-sated matinee idyls of old . There is a charm and vitality to Raiders of the Ark , which Spielberg later admitted was `` the first movie where I actually shot the movie without thinking '' . New Hollywood moguls Spielberg and Lucas teamed up to create the first -- and best -- of their extremely popular plunderings of old adventure serials ... In retrospect , it also appears as a precise pop-culture inauguration of Reagan-era retro Americanism . Think of it as a high quality version of one of the old movie serials that kids used to get every Saturday at the theater before the double feature . Harrison Ford embodies the persona of Indiana Jones with perfection and paves him as an iconic hero . Raiders of the Lost Ark is a wonderful movie . The good news for exhibitors is that it 's also one of those rollercoaster-like movies that people will be lining up for again and again . Classic action set pieces , Harrison Ford at his swashbuckling best , Old Testament spirituality , and a satiric jab at Nazi anti-Semitism . You 'd have to be a heathen to argue with the fact that Raiders of the Lost Ark stands as the best action-adventure movie ever made . 	Featuring bravura set pieces , sly humor , and white-knuckle action , Raiders of the Lost Ark is one of the most consummately entertaining adventure pictures of all time .
day the earth stood still A boldly mediocre remake of the 1951 sci-fi saucer-man movie . Instead of the 1950s mindset % u2013 postwar , cold war , fear of aliens % u2013 it 's been resettled into the mindset of today % u2013 man 's inhumanity to the planet ... It was a great little B movie then , and it 's an ugly big B movie now A highly entertaining and gripping sci-fi thriller with brains . Refusing to take Wise 's nuanced lead , the new Stood is a grotesque creation that prefers noise to thought , clumsily slapping together an eco-minded warning siren in the guise of a bloated Roland Emmerich creation . It 's never explained what formulated the inter-galactic environmental police in the first place . But , then , in Sci-fi , there are certain places you just ca n't go . We 'll spare you the spoiler . And though it has its moments , you might want to spare yourself the movie . Keanu Reeves plays an alien who does n't talk much and shows no emotion . I really think he has found his perfect role . The movie 's last quarter gets clogged up with special effects , including what looks like a gigantic swarm of locusts that eat through whole juggernauts . Whether this eco-warning will have a morally improving effect on audiences is uncertain . It seemed the movie stood still stretching two hours into four and beyond An overall lame piece of science-fiction and an even lamer parable that fails to distinguish its own ironies of what 's worth saving when filmmakers like Derrickson pee all over something so many of us cherish . 	Heavy on special effects , but without a coherent story at its base , The Day the Earth Stood Still is subpar re-imagining of the 1951 science-fiction classic .
daddy day care While much of the film 's formula is tired , it 's tolerable . Steve Zahn 's character is well written and his performance is what makes this one decent . It 's a concept more than a movie , and its jokes and sight gags seem mostly improvised or dashed off . Daddy Day Care has its heart and priorities in the right place , even if the jokes dwindle as it goes on . This is a family film that refuses to entertain any family member over age 10 . Daddy Day Care is a manufactured film which is willing to capitalize on the fact that a sucker of a filmgoer is born every minute . Made with care and intelligence as well as a sense of fun . Your kids will like it , and you will too . A pleasant if predictable romp . Murphy needs to do two things : fire his agent , and learn to discern when a script is worth doing or not . The humor is strictly potty-level , with its biggest laughs reserved for pee-pee gags and the inevitable gas-passing . 	Daddy Day Care does its job of babysitting the tots . Anyone older will probably be bored .
city of lost children With its fine performances , gorgeous sets , incredible special effects , imaginative story line , beautiful score , and knockout cinematography , The City of Lost Children is very much worth seeing . By turns funny , horrific and oddly sweet , there 's really nothing out there that 's quite like City of Lost Children . Jeunet and Caro have distinctive signatures like nobody else 's . The emotions seem almost as manufactured as the sets . Many people will probably not find themselves sympathetic to this movie 's overachieving technological pretensions , while others will find it the best film in months or years . For those who thought films could do nothing new , prepare to be surprised . The City of Lost Children is a stunningly surreal fantasy , a fable of longing and danger , of heroic deeds and bravery , set in a brilliantly realized world of its own . It is one of the most audacious , original films of the year . For those with a taste for the unique or who just want to be weirded out by the creatively bizarre , this is an amazing film . With each frame filled to bursting point with visual detail and multiplaned design , plus razor-sharp cutting that often eliminates transitions , it 's not a movie you can afford to take your eyes off for a second . The City of Lost Children gets so caught up in its own weirdness that it all but shuts out the viewer . 	Not all of its many intriguing ideas are developed , but The City of Lost Children is an engrossing , disturbing , profoundly memorable experience .
new years eve 2011 Garry Marshall , how could you ? You have made a mockery of a movie that bears the name of my birthday . I take this as a personal affront . With so much talent on the screen , it 's an opportunity wasted - fewer , more meaningful stories might have worked better None of the marquee names come off particularly well here , so it 's more a matter of figuring out who embarrasses themselves the most . So many characters , so little substance ! Comes perilously close to feeling like a spoof of a romantic comedy instead of the genuine article . Most depressingly of all there is Robert de Niro , playing a sick old guy in hospital who wants to see the ball drop one more time . I would like to see it drop on Garry Marshall 's head . Despite having amassed a roster of roughly thirty bonafide film stars and respected character actors , New Year 's Eve is nothing more than a glorified cameo carousel , and a laughably schmaltzy , punishingly dull one at that . Another year , another holiday , another opportunity for Garry Marshall to turn all the innovation of Robert Altman and P.T . Anderson and the like into dreary , commercial crap . There 's so much wrong here , it 's difficult to condense it all into one review . In spite of the multi character element , New Year 's Eve has virtually no discernible plot to speak of - just a mlange of badly scripted schmaltz that meanders back and forth with no real care . Not one of the characters ever behaves in a normal human manner , nor is even one of the stories compelling , funny , or interesting . 	Shallow , sappy , and dull , New Year 's Eve assembles a star-studded cast for no discernible purpose .
lilja 4 ever Akinshina and Bogucharskij are remarkable together , and Moodysson once again demonstrates a sophisticated visual skill matched only by his innate understanding of the adolescent heart . Socially revealing and artistically creative , both coldly realistic and infused with compassion for its heroine and her youth culture . This sober , unsparing drama , strong if unambitious , is probably as perfectly characteristic a specimen of serious European filmmaking as any movie ever made . Moodysson has an impressive ability to show the world from the perspective of children , and to elicit naturalistic performances from his youthful actors . By the end of the film , our hearts will burn and break for Lilya . Seldom have the movies given us a young actress as appealing as Oksana Akinshina , or presented a character as real as the one she plays in Lilya 4-Ever . Here [ Moodysson 's ] even more scarily adroit at mining the interior lives of his characters , paradoxically by painting such vivid , harsh external realities . Maybe the movie sounds like a drab and worthy slog through misery , but it 's alive , it feels true , and it got to me . This is n't an easy film -- only a memorable one . It says nothing more useful than : is n't this shocking ? Are n't we powerless to do anything about it ? 	A tragic , hard-hitting story about a teenager trapped in a life of prostitution .
illusionist Screenplay exaggerations and misdirections aside , this is where entertainment lies . Though it 's tempting to laud it for having no pretensions to greatness , it 's equally tempting to stay home and laud it from there . La cinta es en definitiva una grata sorpresa , pero especial ovacin merece el trabajo de Dick Pope , fotgrafo , quien logra un resultado sobresaliente . In early 1900s Vienna , Chief Inspector Uhl ( Paul Giamatti ) has to prove that Eisenheim The Illusionist ( Edward Norton ) is a fraud . Eisenheim , with a secret past , is in love with Sophie ( Jessica Biel ) , who is engaged to abusive Crown Prince Leopold ( Rufus After you 've seen a humongo dork like the Pirates of the Caribbean sequel , exuding effects like a bulimic whale , it can be more satisfying to view CGI touches more selectively used by The Illusionist . This handsome , elegant and restrained fable about love , artifice and power in fin de siecle Vienna is lavishly imagined and yet oddly airless . A smart , sophisticated , well-acted film -- for the most part -- set in turn-of-the-century Vienna involving magic , mystery , power and privilege . An amazing team of talent both in front of and behind the camera stretch a short story into a romantic fairy tale for adults that works . The movie celebrates magic in its many forms while testifying to the enduring power of love . It 's a big enough rarity in itself to find a solid crime/drama these days at the movies , but The Illusionist satiates our hunger for a compelling period piece . 	The Illusionist is an engrossing , well-crafted story of mystery , magic and intrigue that is certain to enchant , if not hypnotize , audiences .
grandmas boy The Sandler-patented mix of the deliberately offensive and the blatantly sentimental loses something in the maestro 's absence . The sex , fart , and pot jokes come so fast and furious that a white flag seems the most appropriate response . If you 're a video game geek and/or a stoner , Grandma 's Boy is n't a comedy -- it 's a documentary . For everyone else , it 's an interminably flat , one-joke movie with admittedly a couple of decent laughs . Everybody else , however , should stay far , far away . That is , unless you want to bear witness to the excruciating cast of characters that includes a kung-fu monkey and a guy who talks like a robot whenever he gets nervous . Yes , it 's that bad . Just as a few bong hits would probably make the movie a tiny bit funnier , they would also probably make all memories of the film blissfully vanish . Grandma 's Boy is what would result if Adam Sandler and his high profile co-stars bailed on a movie and the understudies took over . Grandma 's Boy combines pot-smoking , big breasts , African bushmen , octogenarians , video-gaming techno-geeks -- and one inappropriate masturbation scene -- in one feel-good movie perfect for teenage boys . If they can get in , that is . It 's plenty stupid , often funny and occasionally pithy . That may add up to a movie you want to see , or it might add up to a movie that will make you ill . ... one puerile , thoroughly unfunny joke after another ... The nicest thing that can be said about this stoner comedy is that it 's not the worst of its lowbrow kind . 	A gross-out comedy that 's more gross than comedic , Grandma 's Boy is lazy and unrewarding .
analyze that In short , all the bouncing bullets in the world could n't garner any gunpowder of fresh ideas to lift this gang of rehashed thugs and their sordid activities beyond the stagnation of comical creativity being served on a recycled platter . Analyze That delivers its share of amusing moments , but , when it comes to inventive or inspired comedy , it is lacking . When all is said and done , Analyze That turns out to be the lamest , most unnecessary sequel since ... well , since The Santa Clause 2 , which came out last month . Analyze That is more of the same -- a near-carbon copy of its predecessor -- meaning that it has a handful of funny moments surrounded by a boatload of unfunny ones . This script feels so slap-dash that you wonder if anyone read it before the cameras started rolling With Robert De Niro and Billy Crystal back in the mix ... the warmed-over goulash is tasty more often than not . Worst of all ( it ) actually tries to jerk some tears with ... maudlin soft-focus flashbacks of a happy childhood for De Niro 's mafioso . Oh , puh-leaze ! `` Analyze That '' is one of those crass , contrived sequels that not only fails on its own , but makes you second-guess your affection for the original . With this installment , a joke that became old in the first film gets beaten to death , has its head cut off , is weighted down with rocks and tossed into the river . Wasting Robert De Niro and Billy Crystal 's talent and too much of our time . 	The one joke premise is stretched a bit thin in this messy sequel , but a few laughs can be had here and there .
house of sand and fog A powerful tale of a personal conflict that turns tragic when emotions spin out of control . This is a movie that has the strength of its convictions , and it 's anchored by top-shelf performances that go out on a limb time and again . I am scared of Ben Kingsley . And for that matter , Jennifer Connelly . The war between America and the Middle East is in full metaphoric force in Vadim Perelman 's ridiculous eviction melodrama House of Sand and Fog . I `` only '' give it Matinee rating because when all is said and done , the story did n't end up anywhere , nor did the characters grow or change in any way . The actors ' focused , careful work keeps us mesmerized as the drama builds . A fiercely powerful and melancholy tale about dreams , aspirations and belonging , House of Sand and Fog is a marvellous adaptation . You feel you not only know these people but where they come from . A fine , truly serious picture whose only other major flaw is a climactic turn into melodrama of the most horrifically punishing kind . Is House anti-American ? Possibly . 	Powerful and thought provoking film .
apocalypse now redux 2001 Really and truly is a better , more deeply satisfying work of cinematic art . Coppola and company has made a bigger , but not better , movie that does have to be seen [ on the big screen ] The wealth of pure stuff here , as well as its new proximity to sociopolitical reality , makes Apocalypse Now Redux the best movie of the summer by far . Coppola 's last great movie . Coppola and his editor Walter Murch 's instincts were right ... the first time . This is the war-is-hell movie . Revisiting this enlarged , much improved version reaffirms its status as Coppola 's last masterpiece but also suggests that as a surreal meditation on the madness and folly of Vietnam , it should be considered a horror epic rather than a than just a war film The movie did n't 'need ' to be lengthened , but it 's great to see the cut footage . An Audio-Visual War Poem Although its magnificently restored print and marvelously revamped soundtrack are reason enough to catch it in the theater , one ca n't help but feel that the new scenes detract from the film 's epic tale . 	The additional footage slows down the movie somewhat ( some say the new cut is inferior to the original ) , but Apocalypse Now Redux is still a great piece of cinema .
who framed roger rabbit A wondrous , mind-boggling and impossibly clever movie that may , given a decade or two for hindsight , emerge as the most remarkable film of this high concept era . Deceptively adult movie is fun , but not for kids . Wonderfully clever film . ... an exuberant , funny , inventive , and wholly entertaining piece of whimsy . Among its other assets , it 's an oddly fitting swan song for the great Mel Blanc . Roger looks terrific after 15 years . It 's still a superb film , a rare big budget blockbuster that concentrates on a clever story , crisp performances , and brilliant jokes while using its groundbreaking special effects only as window dressing rather than as the main event . It has become deservedly recognized as a cinema classic . The feats performed by director Robert Zemeckis and director of animation Richard Williams are pretty amazing . Excellent sight gags , clever dialogue , and improbable waistline . 	Who Framed Roger Rabbit is an innovative and entertaining film that features a groundbreaking mix of live action and animation , with a touching and original story to boot .
kit kittredge an american girl In a Barbie world , American Girl Kit Kittredge is a hero , and Kit Kittredge : An American Girl is heroic . I think this film is very well-directed , and you have some very funny performances . More depth than you would expect excellent performances , an intelligent script , rooted in the 30s , but timeless in its themes , make it an adventure and a delight , for all ages A gently thoughtful , audience-appropriate entertainment that assembles swell actors to play colorful characters who do n't shy away from depicting serious hard times . Its realism is Hollywood at its most hokey . Kit Kittredge could be primed for a series of sequels , yet as directed by Patricia Rozema , its elemental integrity seems in direct opposition to the blockbuster or sequel-mania that fuels Hollywood . Sweet and engaging adventure for all ages . It 's not only fresh and unassuming , but a film that serves , very nicely , the severely underserved audience of young girls . It 's corny , but maybe it provides insight as to why American Girl stories are drawn from a nostalgia-tinged past . 	Refreshingly sweet and sincere , Kit 's doll-and-book-inspired do-good mystery may be geared towards the tween girl but will please audiences of all ages .
resident evil apocalypse Witt ca n't even match Anderson 's tremendously limited range , and uses `` Apocalypse '' as his calling card for a future career that should never come to fruition at any costs . Almost nothing in the movie seems original . With apologies to Joe Bob ... Countless dead bodies . Six breasts ... Beer-swilling cowboy zombie-sniper . Demon dogs ... Gratuitous accents ... Graveyard Fu ... If you are in the mood for leggy heroines blasting down zombie armies with absurdly large automatic weapons , the sequel to Resident Evil gives very good value for the money . It is , admittedly , pure trash . But it 's trash with a bit of flash and a resonant bad science message . Those in charge looked at the earlier film and decided . . . that there was just too darn much plot . So this time it 's just one tedious mutant smackdown after another Unlike the Lara Croft films -- which at least infused their software female with a certain feminism -- Resident Evil : Apocalypse is content to stick to big guns and basics . A painful watch for those not into video games or 'zombie action ' , but will please fans of the first film and the rabid gamer . Obviously padded , too long on action , and painfully short on irony . Might not be quite as loud and dumb as its predecessor , but it 's darn close . 	Resident Evil : Apocalypse has lots of action , but not much in terms of plot or creativity .
hot fuzz When playing upon the clichs of the gruff , melting-heart mentor and the newly hardened pupil , Hot Fuzz crackles . Hot Fuzz appears to be England 's attempt to prove to Hollywood that it can make brawny , blustery blockbusters every bit as noisy as those churned out by Tinseltown on a weekly basis . Hot Fuzz runs a bit long for a cop spoof , but it is also one of the funniest law enforcement comedies this side of The Naked Gun . Like a more carefree Tarantino , obviously the product of guys intoxicated by the strange wine of B-cinema . Does for British cops what Shaun of the Dead did for the undead -- and that 's a good thing . A fitfully funny movie , but one that lacks the extra layers that nudged Shaun of the Dead toward B-movie greatness . Past a certain point , one requires more from smart and enthusiastic fans than a reiteration of their fanhood . This rude , bodily fluid-spattered romp is like the Red Bull version of every bad buddy police picture a little Lethal Weapon , a lot of Bad Boys , and waaaaay too much Point Break . After seeing Hot Fuzz I doubt it 'll be possible to keep a straight face during a Michael Bay movie again -- assuming one could ever do such a thing in the first place . It ai n't Shakespeare but its HOT FUN . Nothing more , nothing less . 	The brilliant minds behind Shaun of the Dead successfully take a shot at the buddy cop genre with Hot Fuzz . The result is a bitingly satiric and hugely entertaining parody .
carlos 2010 Like `` The Baader-Meinhof Complex '' , this is a largely pointless exercise meant to deliver the same kind of cheap thrills as `` Bonnie and Clyde '' or the Mesrine flicks . At least with straight-ahead gangster movies , you do n't get the liberal moralizing . Olivier Assayas 's ambitious biography of the Venezuelan-born terrorist known as Carlos the Jackal features some spectacular filmmaking and well-considered performances . Killer stuff . Olivier Assayas ' three-part drama about Carlos the Jackal , the Venezuelan-born radical-Marxist terrorist of the '70s and '80s , is a rivetingly journalistic account of a scoundrel 's rise and fall . Following a Venezualan 's decade-long climb up the global terror ladder Absorbing The fictionalised account of Carlos 's personal life is intriguing , but the deeper root of his anger remains unclear beyond the rhetoric . While 'Carlos the film ' is an inflated action movie , Carlos the monster-man remains as enigmatic as before It matches moments of globetrotting , Bourne-like cloak-and-dagger intrigue with the documentary precision of a police investigation determined to leave nothing uncovered . Carlos steps into the abyss created by the loss of political hope and fills it with blood and terror , playing to the faithful with anti-imperialist rhetoric and a pantomime of that old-time revolutionary feeling . 	Despite its hefty running time , Carlos moves along briskly , thanks to an engaging story , exotic locales , and a breakout performance by Edgar Ramirez .
solitary man Solitary Man is the type of thought-provoking film that should be released in over 3,000 theaters . Michael Douglas and the supporting cast deliver great performances . Nobody does oily like Michael Douglas . Why do we keep watching this sad , sad man ? Because he 's ecstatic as long as he avoids facing reality , and Douglas makes that ecstasy a marvelous thing to behold . Douglas makes all the contrivances feel like universal , soul-testing dilemmas . He encourages the audience to lean in and watch him close , to pick up a few tips on how to look cool while melting down . Douglas has a good supporting cast to work with though -- he 's not the whole show despite appearing in every scene . The role is so tailor-made for Douglas , who has put in years of screen time on the horizontal , that the rest of the story has to fit in around him , leaving scant room for maneuver . It 's a pretty good version of this sort of movie , but do you need to see this sort of movie again ? It 's smoothly written and smartly paced , and Michael Douglas is riveting . Koppleman and his co-director , David Levien , hit the right tone early -- empathetic yet brutally honest -- and Douglas ' absorbing , minutely detailed performance sustains it . More aphoristic than explorative , Solitary Man takes for granted the audience 's interest in mapping a star 's reckoning with his persona onto a sensational but shallow script . 	Built around a singularly unpleasant main character , Solitary Man needed a flawless central performance to succeed -- and Michael Douglas delivers .
the cell 2000 Where 's the story ? There really is n't one . But for most of `` The Cell '' it wo n't matter ; just sit back and enjoy the creepy , dazzling ride . For all of Singh 's facility with visual renderings , he 's chosen to hang them on a story that seldom amounts to more than The Silence of the Lambs for dummies . A fascinating dreamscape of mythic imagery and Biblical undertones . The plot is a formulaic ditty where the cop uses a beautiful woman as bait to trap the killer . It has very little to do with surrealism or desert photography . Sets a new standard for moviemakers . The Cell has virtually nothing on its mind but showcasing its sumptuous , year's-best production design , fine special effects , and demented sensibility . A disturbing , evocative journey into the human mind , the film recalls your spookiest dreams , most forbidden fantasies , and darkest past memories , strung together in an unforgettably bold visual palette . This is one beautifully surreal and unsettling thriller , with astounding visuals that will lurk in the crawlspaces of your brain after you 've left the theater . D'Onofrio proves that his performance as the bug-wearing-an-Edgar-suit in Men in Black was no fluke . Lopez is hard to take as the empathetic psychologist who uses a synaptic transfer machine to penetrate the comatose killer 's tortured psyche in hopes of finding his latest victim . 	The Cell offers disturbing , stunning eye candy , but it is undermined by a weak and shallow plotline that offers nothing new .
air guitar nation Like most guitar solos , the film does n't quite know when to quit . There are occasional moments of wisdom , drama and emotion , but we never quite forget the blunt confession of one of the founders of the world championship , who admits that the whole thing began as a joke . Psst , buddy : it still is . In this pitch-perfect documentary about the very real rise of air guitar competition in the United States , and two of its top performers , stony thoughts will arise as to whether one is suddenly trapped inside a satire that got wrapped in a reality . That the event is not only taken seriously by its contestants , but is also surprisingly devoid of irony , makes Air Guitar Nation excellently enjoyable . [ Some ] may be taken aback by the exhibition of sheer ego in what is clearly a form of replacement therapy for those whose ambitions exceed their talents . The film 's action footage -- lots of men and women thrashing around with a theoretical Fender in hand -- gets pretty tedious after a while . There is only so much self-inflicted embarrassment one can bear watching . As dumb as the idea of grown men dressing up and pretending to play guitar may be , there 's no arguing that some of these grown men do so with a truly awesome degree of energy and flair . A favorite on the film festival circuit , Alexandra Lipsitz 's exuberantly funny documentary follows the triumphant path of an American air guitarist as he rises from U.S. East Coast champ to the top rankings of the international air guitar festival . A genuinely funny and absorbing documentary . The Finns take the whole thing pretty seriously , noting that if you hold an air guitar , it 's impossible to simultaneously hold a gun or rifle . ( I 'm sure some hombre in a Peckinpah movie would be able to pull it off . ) 	It 's up for debate how serious or ironic its subjects are , but Air Guitar Nation is nonetheless a funny and exciting documentary with a killer soundtrack .
django unchained 2012 Django Unchained is everything you want from a Quentin Tarantino movie , with a few new things added in . Powerful , dazzling , and insanely entertaining . In spite of some exceptionally indulgent choices by the fan-favorite director , Django Unchained is another sharp and enjoyable Tarantino effort . A blistering , bullet-ridden bonanza . Overlong , self-indulgent garbage with a portrayal of a `` house Negro '' that is a grotesque distortion of a sad reality . As an entertaining revenge flick with roots in exploitation films and spaghetti westerns , Django Unchained succeeds . But it never rises above its genre to become a real , affecting emotional experience . The director pulls off this look at the horrors of slavery with respect for its subject . With Django Unchained , Tarantino , through his incredible , outrageously violent Spaghetti Western Superman fantasy , tells the truth . These characters dance a tense ballet along a razor 's edge in the last third of the film , and their verbal sparring is the sound of gauntlets being thrown before things inevitably reach a bloody conclusion . I had a good enough time to wish that it had been better . Quentin Tarantino has made a spaghetti western and cross-pollinated it with a blaxploitation picture , but it 's fully formed , unapologetic and easily one of the best popcorn flicks of the year . Think of it as the gore-filled antidote to the old-school melodrama of Gone With the Wind . 	Bold , bloody , and stylistically daring , Django Unchained is another incendiary masterpiece from Quentin Tarantino .
italian A gritty Russian movie about a plucky and adventuresome orphan who sets out to find his birth mother . The picture captures with a piercing sympathy the ambiguous state of post-Glasnost Russia . Sometimes a difficult film can be redeemed with one astonishing end moment . That 's the case with The Italian , where the last few moments possess a humanity that elevates all that comes before it . The Italian offers a soul-blasted portrait of modern Russia ... The Italian is an aesthetic gem , but a moral muddle . Andrei Kravchuk 's film is sensitive to the hilt and pleasingly attuned to the guileless outlook of its hero . Director Andrei Kravchuk gives The Italian a Dickensian spirit , full of dire twists , nasty villains and other colorfully seedy characters . This could be just another 'poor little kid ' story but for the wonderful performance of young Spiridonov , whose spunk and winning smile ca n't hide the aching need to find his mother . It 's a hard-knock life , but the film is less a Dickensian nightmare than an unsettling ( if rather benign ) metaphor for the new Russia . Director Andrei Kravchuk and cinematographer Alexander Burov make the harsh landscapes and decrepit interiors interesting and varied , without falsely dramatic set ups or lighting . 	Poignant and unforgettable , The Italian stands out from other European melodramas . Like its extraordinary child lead , this Russian drama about an orphan 's search for his birth mother is small in size and monumental in pathos .
10009516-women English spent 12 years slaving to get her remake green-lighted , an astounding output of time and energy for a person to spend on a movie they do n't understand . First time filmmaker Diane English ( Murphy Brown ) labored for over a decade to bring this project to the screen , but passion should n't be confused with vision . The 1930s original feels more cutting-edge than this re-do . Sex and the City was smarter . Mamma Mia ! was dopier . But both , unfortunately , were more entertaining than The Women . Call it Sex and the City with brains . Even those who never saw Cukor 's movie will feel something is missing in English 's version . Yes , some of what 's missing is humor and snappy dialogue , but that could be forgiven , if only some of the characters were more believable . These women are ready for action , but the fur never flies . These women have n't only been declawed , they 've been spayed and neutered . This ca n't be what women want to watch . A film written , directed and starring all women completely misses the mark of embracing strong powerful independent women . Messy construction , trite themes and an endless parade of verbal chestnuts . 	The Women is a toothless remake of the 1939 classic , lacking the charm , wit and compelling protagonists of the original .
middle of nowhere There 's also a fine line between meditative and just plain pokey ... It 's only the charisma and passion of the film 's performers that carries us to the end . This is n't about dramatic revelations and charge confrontations . DuVernay , who also wrote the original screenplay , has made a film about those moments lived between the decisions ... Remarkably self-assured ... Director Ava DuVernay , in showing Ruby 's life in waiting , occasionally lets the pace slip into tedium . Middle of Nowhere explores the contours of loneliness and the boundaries of loyalty in a way that is both artful and emotionally revealing . `` Middle of Nowhere '' carries the imprimatur of Sundance , but without the dreary stereotypes or self-satisfied politics that can ( at times unfairly ) characterize its offerings . Burrows deep into a lower working-class , primarily female African-American milieu and culture rarely presented onscreen with any sort of realism or understanding . This film is about a particular African-American experience , true , but it 's also about the human experience . It will haunt you . It should . Like its central character , Middle of Nowhere is a gem . The fine acting between the two leads is filled with determination and passion for their characters . 	Wise , compassionate , and beautifully acted , Middle of Nowhere offers an early testament to writer-director Ava DuVernay 's startling talent .
head of state Is n't this the same sort of pandering , middle-brow movie that Chris Rock used to say really means things about in his stand-up act ? It may be an overly simplistic fantasy , but it 's a funny one , and you wo n't find anything at the cineplex more relevant . A pleasing and occasionally very funny movie that maintains a mild but consistent hold on its audience . ... undeniably inconsistent , but when Rock hits he 's dangerously funny . Now safe is commendable in a car or a household appliance , but it does n't measure up in a comedy . Safe just is n't funny . With the whole country watching him , Chris Rock has absolutely nothing of substance to say . Rock serves as star , director , co-writer , and co-producer , so he ca n't point fingers at anyone else when the film loses its way . It hits easy targets with broad swipes , and its simple message is the same as Disney kiddie fare : Be yourself . If all you 're after is a couple of clever one-liners and the sight of tightwad white people getting down to Nelly , then feel free to Rock the vote . Catch it on a really cheap video night , but even then ... make sure that a friend pays . 	Head of State squanders its potentially ripe premise with watered-down satire and formulaic gags .
clockstoppers The film does n't have enough innovation or pizazz to attract teenagers , and it lacks the novel charm that made Spy Kids a surprising winner with both adults and younger audiences . See Clockstoppers if you have nothing better to do with 94 minutes . But be warned , you too may feel time has decided to stand still . Or that the battery on your watch has died . Visually exciting sci-fi film which suffers from a lackluster screenplay . Absurda , mas divertida , a premissa confere um certo grau de interesse ao filme , que ainda se beneficia do tom adolescente descompromissado . The plot grinds on with yawn-provoking dullness . Clockstoppers has nothing to offer but its one meager technological trick , and before you know it , the trick disappears . Far too tepid and unspectacular to be anything but a harmless time-killer -- it 's really no better than a movie made for a child- friendly cable network . Not for discerning adults , but older kids and teens will have a good time . If the director had committed to one genre rather than dropping in on many , he might have been able to pull it off . Lest you think Zak might take hypertime by the horns and cop a feel , remember the film 's PG rating . 	A pleasant diversion for the young teens , but a waste of time for anyone older .
this is not a film 2011 ... never settles down - it 's as restless as its house arrested protagonist and a compelling and often humorous look at a day in the life of an auteur with his wings clipped . It may not be what one might normally describe as a `` film '' but whatever it is that one might call it , `` This is Not a Film '' is an absolute must-see . [ A ] courageous act of artistic provocation ... It 's a subtle contribution to the literature of oppression , opposition and prison and to the never-ending discussion of art and its relationship to life . As for Panahi , I could watch him for hours . With his film , its title , with his dignity and strength of purpose he mocks the stupidity of the regime 's censorship . A clandestine last gasp of freedom from one of Iran 's most creative and controversial film directors while under house arrest . Far less transparent than it first appears , This Is Not a Film is a prime example of what Panahi 's mentor , Abbas Kiarostami , has termed the ''half-finished '' film , for which part of the meaning must be supplied by the viewer . The complex , brilliant , heartbreaking diary of Iranian filmmaker Jafar Panahi under house arrest in Tehran , and prohibited from making movies . I would like to show `` This Is Not a Film '' to those in the United States who are in favor of a close union of church and state . A simple , sad , refreshing and intrinsically beautiful film . 	Through simple means and filming , This is Not a Film presents a vital political statement and a snapshot of life in Iran as enemy of the state .
titan ae Lifts its story from every successful science-fiction film that I 've ever seen in my life . Such dreck ! In a summer driven by wow factors , Titan A.E . has a galaxy 's worth . There is no excuse for the badness of Titan A.E . The result is an impressive array of themes , stories and sequences that use both computer imagery and , often , hand-painted animation to an effect that 's better than many live-action films . Could end up being the space epic to reckon with . Animated space opera shoots for the stars , but runs out of gas . La cinta es demasiado simple y poco creble para los adolescentes y adultos y muy pesada para los nios . This engaging , technically magnificent piece of computer-age animation delivers the mix of punch and pathos that modern moviegoers have come to expect from action yarns . Star Wars pulped and mashed into flavorless kiddie corn . 	Great visuals , but the story feels like a cut-and-paste job of other sci-fi movies .
painted veil A beautiful and very believable story , set in China in the 1920s , about the personal transformation of a married couple . Why , ultimately , leave 1920s England to see a tragic romance between two Brits ? Part this veil , and the atmosphere dissolves into a smokescreen , the backdrop revealed as a chasm between cultures . Stunning locations , a story with strong emotional , physical and spiritual conflicts , and a first-rate cast . Norton and Watts are top-notch , as are Schreiber and Toby Jones . There is not an actor in The Painted Veil who is anything less than supremely talented . But despite having a razor-sharp script from which to work , [ director John ] Curran ca n't quite get a single character to come fully alive . Redemption comes far too late in The Painted Veil , an aloof and disappointing adaptation of W. Somerset Maugham 's 1920s novel that features one of the more unlikable , self-involved main characters in recent memory . The production values are characteristically sumptuous , William Daniels ' photography is lustrous , and Boleslawski directs with suitable flair . There 's room for old-fashioned literary cinema , but Curran 's third version of Maugham 's morality tale ( done with Garbo in 1934 and Eleanor Parker in 1957 ) does n't illuminate the nuanced journey taken by the ill-matched couple . If the cholera doesn ( TM ) t get you , the dialogue will . [ The film ] rubs off a few of the barbed edges from W. Somerset Maugham 's 1925 novel about love and infidelity in a time of cholera , but no matter : the centerpiece is Naomi Watts ' outstanding portrayal of an adulteress redeemed . 	Visually , The Painted Veil has all the trappings of a stuffy period drama , but Norton 's and Watts 's deft portrayals of imperfect , complicated characters give the film a modern-day spark .
iron man 2 Offers fewer surprises and exhilarating scenes than its smarter predecessor , briefly loses its footing , and suffers from excessive contrivance , but remains mindlessly entertaining thanks to its solid cast and some thrilling action sequences . Though not as turbo-charged as the original , it 's funnier and less politically off-putting . Iron Man bests the biggest adversaries of the superhero genre in his second outing : production troubles , sequel-bloat and overwhelming , unrestrained fanboy hype . Iron Man 2 is the sequel everyone thinks Spider-Man 2 was . This mega-mecha melee manages to give short shrift to both the airborne action set-pieces that define Iron Man 's zoomy panache and incoming supervillain Whiplash . Not a bad followup to the original Iron Man . Good performances and plenty of first-rate action . Iron Man 2 is great fun . Paul Chambers , CNN . Superhero Stark remains intriguing . Downey still has plenty of moments of charm ( nobody kicks a car aside as casually as this guy ) , and most of the action sequences are lively and fun . It 's a rush , but it 's more like taxiing than take-off . It 's bigger , louder , funnier , darker and more emotional than before . So much so that you hardly notice how thin and choppy the plot is . 	It is n't quite the breath of fresh air that Iron Man was , but this sequel comes close with solid performances and an action-packed plot .
the last waltz 2002 A brilliant DVD does justice to the greatest rock-and-roll film of all time . A revealing document of a time . ... Exposes the spuriousness of Cameron Crowe 's Almost Famous once and for all . It reinvigorates and refreshes while giving the audience a microphone's-eye-view of legendary rockers . [ Gathers ] so much talent into one theater that the stage buckles and the subject drops out of sight . An essential document of American music at its unbeatable best . With all the powder that 's said to have been tooted at the Band 's 1976 `` farewell '' show , filmed by Martin Scorsese in his goodfella-against-the-helicopters period , you could make a line from Oak Street Cinema all the way to the mayor 's office . Still sounds powerful , vibrant , imaginative and adventurous . Scorsese actually scripted and storyboarded the film ... Remarkably , the performances show no signs of being reined in or rehearsed . In fact , as Scorsese 's cameras swirl around the musicians , all we see is joy and high spirits . An unusually dignified portrait of rock excess . 	Among one of , if not the best rock movie ever made , The Last Waltz is a revealing , electrifying view of the classic band at their height .
gueros It touches on real issues like student strikes and class disparity , but does so with whimsical flexibility and self-aware humor . Shot in glorious black-and-white , Alonso Ruiz Palacios ' Geros follows the indie-slacker template to the letter , but it ultimately meanders too much for its own good . Every five minutes or so , Ruizpalacios comes up with something strikingly expressionistic . Ruizpalacios debut is one of the best in Mexican cinema in the past century . One of the most enjoyable Mexican movies in recent memory . [ Full review in Spanish ] Palacios deftly navigates the landscape , seamlessly switching tones , moods and paces , rendering Gueros a film full of rich emotions , raw settings , and a unique portrait of youth in rebellion . Quite unique , nothing we have seen before in Mexican cinema . The film 's droll humor and unexpected twists go a long way towards sustaining audience interest , even if the film goes from homage into self-conscious parody territory several times , With `` Geros '' , Alonso Ruizpalacios , succeeds to find a place between artistic and commercial cinema . Geros is more than a movie , it 's an event . [ Full review in Spanish ] 	A striking effort that synthesizes disparate influences with inventive flair , Geros marks a bold step forward for modern Mexican cinema .
pontypool Interesting zombie flick . A little too claustrophobic with all of the scenes in a makeshift radio station . Too much description and not enough action , almost like War of the World 's radio broadcast . Still , worth watching once . Paul Chambers , CNN . This unsettlingly quirky account of semiological breakdown and small-town apocalypse plays like My Winnipeg for fans of intellectual horror . Pontypool is as astonishing as it is original , and amply repays multiple viewings . ... ultimately undone by its increasingly outlandish premise ... ... most of the pleasures the movie offers are visceral , from the silken roar of character actor McHattie 's FM shock jock voice and the bloody meltdown of a production assistant to the bizarro epilogue appended to the credits . An entertaining cerebral chiller . Pontypool is a gripping thriller , juiced up by macabre humor and intelligent social commentary . This low-budget picture is a little too claustrophobic , and it grows tedious . The ominous , overbearing musical score tries but fails to jack up the tension . Ignore the shaky tongue-tied opening fifteen minutes ; when Pontypool gets its words in order it reminds you how much creepy fun can be had in keeping the horror tantalisingly offscreen . Tight as a drum and the most inventive spin on a zombie-plague premise in years . However shrewdly contrived to keep its budget low , Pontypool , set almost entirely in a basement radio station , is a zombie flick sans bite . 	Witty and restrained but still taut and funny , this Pontypool is a different breed of low-budget zombie film .
amistad Strip it of its historical trappings , and Amistad is really just another courtroom drama -- a particularly manipulative one to boot . Amistad succeds in delivering a powerful message while never being dull . Amistad is prestige filmmaking bereft of inspiration -- sometimes even of the nuts and bolts of craft . Spielberg errs on the side of right and moral decency , and as a cinematic essay on a subject of universal validity plus eternal currency , it deserves -- and justifies -- genuine praise both as entertainment and as history lesson . However imperfectly , [ Speilberg ] has crafted another eloquent reminder that although goodness lives with a perpetual sense of weariness in its battle with the self-renewing power of evil , it can never retreat , never sleep . Amistad is a maddening film because it comes so close to greatness . In Amistad , an admirable but disappointing effort ... [ Speilberg ] veers between stoic political correctness and mushy Hollywood platitudes . Amistad is a picture you will not want to forego . Dry and dawdling , haphazardly structured , and grindingly obvious . This is as stark and unsentimental -- in other words , the most unSpielbergian -- a film as I 've seen in a long time . 	Heartfelt without resorting to preachiness , Amistad tells an important story with engaging sensitivity and absorbing skill .
maze runner the scorch trials Maze Runner : The Scorch Trials delivers more and bigger sci-fi action-adventure thrills than the original Maze Runner . Director Wes Ball returns for the follow-up , delivering a slicker and more confident product , full of grander set-pieces and tougher themes . Pushing the YA franchise even further into sci fi B movie territory , Maze Runner : The Scorch Trials is blatantly derivative but enjoyably silly throughout . The Dumber Games ? Derivative and unintelligent . Perhaps the next installment will actually provide the real thrills instead of postponing them . It 's exhausting , yet emotionally unengaging . `` Maze Runner : The Scorch Trials '' crams in more lore , supporting characters , backstories and motivations to the extent that it becomes difficult to get a grasp on anything . It 's only recommended for those who have seen the first film and plan on seeing the third , but as middle instalments go this is an entertaining one that 's all the better for being unfaithful to the book . O'Brien is so fully , physically committed that you ca n't help but believe in him , and he 's surrounded by a winning supporting cast of young actors who are a pleasure to watch . Builds and enhances its world and characters impressively . New ties are created , surprising conflicts emerge . You 'll be invested enough for the final installment , 	Maze Runner : The Scorch Trials is an action-packed sequel at the cost of story , urgency , and mystery that the original offered .
black hawk down Compelling account of the 1993 Battle of Mogadishu . Films like this are more useful than gung-ho capers like Behind Enemy Lines . They help audiences understand and sympathize with the actual experiences of combat troops , instead of trivializing them into entertainments . A good , intense war movie that falls short of being a great one : Once the adrenaline wears off , you realize it 's as dramatically satisfying as an MRE food ration . A lean , mean war movie will astonish you with its stark realism and exhaust you with its intensity . Violent depiction of a risky rescue ; adults only . Dramatically taught , crisply shot and vibrantly visualized , this film deserves a place in the war film pantheon . A war movie so unflinching and so real there are scenes here and effects here that would make George S. Patton wince . Although technically superb , this film left me exhausted , confused , and angry . One of the best depictions of the outright lunacy inherent to battle I have ever seen . Long on action and short on sap , this retelling of 1993 's botched and bloody Battle of Mogadishu in Somalia is patriotic yet honest . 	Though it 's light on character development and cultural empathy , Black Hawk Down is a visceral , pulse-pounding portrait of war , elevated by Ridley Scott 's superb technical skill .
whats eating gilbert grape Hallstrom finds the right bittersweet tone for his dysfunctional family tale ( and one of Hollywood 's few films about obesity ) , marvelously acted by Johnny Depp and particularly Leonardo DiCaprio in his second outing as a retarded adolescent . There is not much plot to speak of , but the film instead presents a moody , elegiac atmosphere of longing and desperation that is powerfully tangible ... . Depp 's sincere , subtle performance is certainly a big reason for the movie 's success ... With an eccentric charm that falters only in a few places , the movie makes a strong statement against conformity and the franchising of America by celebrating a cast of characters and a storyline that do n't fit into a mold . One of the most enchanting movies of the year . Small-town drama has big moments thanks to Johnny Depp , Juliette Lewis and a superb Leonardo DiCaprio . There is a warmth and wit and insightfulness here that brings the film significantly up a few notches from the usual fare on this subject , and the performances are all excellent . All tics , flailings , and full-open , drooling laughter , DiCaprio seems to have captured the damaged heart and soul of Arnie Grape . Hallstrm 's finally struck a chord with the Americans , though it 's much the same cocktail of whimsy and worry , the eccentric and the banal , that he 's been mixing all along . An overrated film . DiCaprio gives a great performance as a mentally retarded boy . It 's so good , in fact , that 's it 's difficult to watch . 	It 's sentimental and somewhat predictable , but those are small complaints , given the tender atmosphere and moving performances at the heart of What 's Eating Gilbert Grape .
1058516-street fighter well , video game movies all do suck If you grew up playing Street Fighter 2 , you MUST see this movie . If not , stay far , far away . Game Over . Bizarre , surreal , and ultimately less engaging than playing Pong with a blind man ... ... the film has been infused with a myriad of shamelessly over-the-top elements that inevitably become quite tough to take . OOOF ! ! ! ! ! A dreary , overstuffed hodgepodge of poorly edited martial arts sequences and often unintelligible dialogue . Even at eleven years old I could n't understand why this was so bad while the games were so incredible . Julia ( in his final role ) hams it up shamelessly as the camp commandant , but not even his suave presence and throwaway quips can save this noisy , brainless mess . Fun Van Damme silliness 	Though it offers mild entertainment through campy one-liners and the overacting of the late Raul Julia , Street Fighter 's nonstop action sequences are not enough to make up for a predictable , uneven storyline .
1084878-supernova Most reminiscent of certain old Star Trek episodes , the especially horny ones in which Kirk spent most of his time in his quarters with some busty alien . Not a good movie by any stretch of the imagination . A waste of time and talent . Supernova is so absolutely traditional that it voyages into the realm of idiocy . Supernova , though predictable , is n't half bad . The script probably got sucked into a black hole . A Frankenstein monster , with more obvious story patches , post-dubbed exposition , and missing money shots than most straight-to-video fare . simple , but well paced . Supernova meekly goes where other sci-fi flicks , such as Alien , have gone before . A perfectly enjoyable sci-fi thriller . 	This is an insult to the Sci-fi genre with no excitement and bad FX .
deck the halls ... this sour eggnog combines bad taste with ersatz holiday cheer . As reliable as your Aunt Harriet 's sweet potato casserole , every holiday season brings a movie just like John Whitesell 's Deck the Halls , in which otherwise sensible actors commit themselves to a cheerless exercise in jingle bell hell . Laden with false climaxes , the overstuffed plot leaves you exhausted well before the movie ends , and the amiable actors sleepwalk through their uninspired roles . Watching `` Deck the Halls '' is like getting a lump of coal in your stocking . Except receiving a lump of coal takes only seconds , while this awful movie goes on for an hour and a half . Makes us miss those Home Alone days ... Movies like Deck the Halls should make us all thankful that Christmas only comes once a year . What other season could possibly inspire a story as insipid as this ? This one follows the depressing pattern of Surviving Christmas and Christmas With the Kranks : enforced holiday cheer gives way to bilious hatred , then hollow forgiveness . What 's interesting about typical Hollywood Christmas movies is that regardless of how crass , vulgar , or mean-spirited they may be , by the last scene they will inevitably try to wrap viewers in a blanket of warm seasonal cheer . Deck the screenwriter , deck the director -- then go and deck your own halls . Deck the Halls , a flabby attempt at false holiday cheer opening in theaters today , resembles an inflatable Santa after vandals have gotten to it . 	Relying on flat humor and a preposterous plot , Deck the Halls is an unnecessarily mean-spirited holiday movie that does little to put viewers in a holiday mood .
cats and dogs This clash of the titans is delightful . Cats & Dogs has none of the intriguing charm of the Babe films -- it fails to establish animal characters we can care about . With few exceptions , the pets are nothing more than furry pawns . Plenty of heart and hijinks mixed with litter box humor . `` They stack the doggone deck against the sneaky felines but it 's frisky , furr-ocious family fun for a matinee . '' The perfunctory plotting , clunky staging , and Hayes 's decision to play Mr. Tinkles for camp rather than menace help condemn this mutt to the doghouse . A surprisingly ill-advised misfire that surely wo n't be garnering many devoted fans above the age of single-digits . Getting past the blatant canine bias ... the movie turns out to be an inventive all-ages comedy . A synthetic creation , a calculated combination of knockabout farce and cheap sentiment that ... lacks heart . Inoffensive fun that kids will love and adults will likely love too . On paper , it may have looked like 'Cats and Dogs ' would prove a winner with both children and adults . Maybe even another 'Babe ' . Something , however , obviously went seriously wrong between the drawing board and the transformation to celluloid . 	A great concept , but the movie fails to develop the characters and some of the jokes are hit-or-miss .
wild thornberrys movie There 's barely enough plot here for a 22-minute TV episode and not nearly enough for an 88-minute movie . The Wild Thornberrys Movie is n't going to make anyone 's head explode with joy , but it is sweet and sporadically funny in its own loopy way . Just as entertaining as the hit Nickelodeon series on which it is based . unexpectedly rousing ... can be easily appreciated even by those unacquainted with the four-year-old series . If I have to choose between gorgeous animation and a lame story ( like , say , Treasure Planet ) or so-so animation and an exciting , clever story with a batch of appealing characters , I 'll take the latter every time . Adults will be bored into slumber , and even kids deserve something with a little more bite . An adventure families can enjoy together . The movie fart jokes are n't $ 8.25 funnier than the TV ones . Bland but harmless . A magical blend of wit and a big-hearted view of the world and all its creatures makes the film more than a good bet to bring in family audiences during the holidays and beyond . 	A pleasant enough kids flick that adults may even enjoy .
city island A sparkling example of independent filmmaking at its finest . This delightful family-oriented movie wears its heart on its sleeve . There 's a beating pulse to this emotionally complex story and writer director Raymond De Felitta has created a wonderful , involving film with flawed characters we understand and with whom we empathise . When the secrets start to unravel like a tightly coil The slice-of-life comedy City Island is a charming throwback filled with authentic characters . Writer-director Raymond De Felitta is essentially offering a kinky-comic New Yawk version of a Greek tragedy here , and even if the whole thing is pretty implausible , it 's also fairly entertaining . Who would think that a sleepy seaside snippet of the Bronx could foster a Faulkner novel 's worth of family skeletons ? Garcia delivers a nerve-jangling tour de force tryout that will be appreciated by out-of-work actors for years to come . It has a basic goodness of heart that counteracts , if not entirely cancels out , the film 's broadness and busyness . According to writer-director Raymond De Felitta 's blog entries on Salon.com , he has worked a long time to get his new movie City Island to the screen , maybe a little too long . A professionally executed farce of the yelling-family variety . The outer-borough oddities of City Island are hard to resist . 	Raymond De Felitta combines warmth , humanity , and a natural sense of humor , and is abetted by Andy Garcia and an excellent ensemble cast .
contagion 2011 the Traffic of outbreak movies Gets off to a very strong start , but eventually gets bogged down in questionable plotting and weak characterization . A powerful 'what if ? ' that leaves you reeling from the implications that something like this could very well happen exactly as depicted . Killing off one of your marquee actresses appeals to that not-insignificant portion of the moviegoing population that is , shall we say , weary of Paltrow . Though the 'case study ' approach may not be satisfying for all , Contagion offers a fresh look at the way in which our fragile ecosystem teeters on extinction , without resorting to overblown theatrics or skyscraper-demolishing pyrotechnics . If this is an action-thriller , it 's one that makes med school look sexier than the Marines . The third act will seem anticlimactic by comparison , but it 's tough to fault a movie , especially one about a deadly virus , for being too grounded . You 'll want to make a beeline for the nearest restroom to wash your hands ... plays like a feature-length public service announcement , a duck-and-cover-your-mouth drill . The film wraps up tightly and somewhat too quickly , but it 's a delight to experience Soderbergh at the top of his game . A disaster movie without tension or humor . 	Tense , tightly plotted , and bolstered by a stellar cast , Contagion is an exceptionally smart -- and scary -- disaster movie .
1194522-how to train your dragon Kids will absolutely adore and thrill to this adventure , but it will sneak up on grown-ups who will eventually be dazzled both by the beauty of the visuals and the masterful storytelling . DreamWorks sometimes manages to give Pixar a run for the money . Here they simply come up with a good commercial product . A soaring , endearing adventure feature that plays smart and fierce . Now stop giving your money to Tim Burton 's wheezy imagination and see something with genuine magic . An actual , effective , multi-dimensional wonderland . The 3D is justified , mostly by flying sequences that are certain to fuel the dreams of many a child . Exuberant execution , infectious humor , and overwhelming charm . A winning combination of vivid imagery , snappy writing and a strong narrative Based on the book by Cressida Cowell , the movie from writer-director Dean Dubois is funny , well-drawn and imaginatively structured so that adults need have no fear about taking the kids to it . Magical storytelling that makes perfect family entertainment for the Easter holidays . The concentration is n't on comedyand thank goodness there are no farting dragon jokesbut on the drama that comes with an underdog going against the grain and standing up for what he believes in . Some pixel-enhanced fantasy adventures are crude , untrained and head-butting . Others are well-mannered , nourishing and pretty to look at . Dragon Dragon is in the second category ... 	Boasting dazzling animation , a script with surprising dramatic depth , and thrilling 3-D sequences , How to Train Your Dragon soars .
mommy 2015 Startlingly original , compellingly watchable character study that is simultaneously hilarious , appalling and sad . Not since the Coen brothers ' Blood Simple has a movie confirmed a voice this fresh and visual . When Xavier Dolan 's tremendous empathy for the abandoned , medicated , and economically stressed is given full visual flight , it 's easy to get lost in the rush . As outrageous as it is insightful , Mommy is a mother-and-son melodrama taken to operatic heights . Mommy is a film about love and compassion , and it is wonderful . See it . [ It ] can be seen as a tribute to maternal devotion , though I saw it for a long time as a study in perilous self-delusion . Watch sparks fly when sonny and mommy are in a room . Although the performances are outstanding , and there 's plenty of Dolan 's trademark vigour , it 's a long and at times overindulgent examination of a hyperactive teenager , his white-trash mum and their kindly neighbour . These three performances are simply perfect . Dolan is not going to let you forget who 's boss . As for myself , I quit . 	As challenging as it is rewarding , Mommy finds writer-director Xavier Dolan taking another impressive step forward .
ordinary people Better than forever being dismissed with a huffy `` I ca n't believe that beat Raging Bull '' . An austere and delicate examination of the ways in which a likable family falters under pressure and struggles , with ambiguous results , to renew itself . It would be unfair to blame Ordinary People for the culture from which it springs ; and , within its limits , this is an entertaining and skillful film . A beautifully acted film about the impact of a family tragedy on those who blame themselves and others . An uncomfortable film , one that leaves you aching for its characters . Expect a bit of a funk afterward . This dissection of family mores in upscale suburbia is emotionally powerful , decidedly unsentimental , and the suitable text for the feature directorial debut of Robert Redford . An actors ' movie and an advert for therapy , extremely bitter , but handsomely directed in its elegant pretentiousness . Under Redford 's direction , even the smallest scenes practically leap off the screen . This is a film that will ring true many viewers . The ability of the film to touch 'ordinary ' folk so strongly and honestly is the mark of a true classic . A masterpiece . 	Though shot through with bitterness and sorrow , Robert Redford 's directorial debut is absorbing and well-acted .
national lampoons animal house You may not care to take up permanent spiritual residence at Animal House , but it 's funny place to visit . great fun Animal House is as funny today as it was 25 years ago . ... incredibly well cast , a fact that might have as much to do with it 's persistence in the collective imagination as anything else . One of the all-time classic movies , and a career-defining performance by Belushi make this mandatory viewing for any movie lover . A gem . Animal House is a self-congratulatory mess ; but it 's also spattered with terrific one-liners and sight gags , and it 's the best showcase extant for John Belushi 's subversive , attention-grabbing screen presence . Animal House brandit le titre de film culte avec honneur . The Lampoon people understand the darkest secret of an American college education : one of the noblest reasons to go is to spend four years studying sex . `` Animal House '' never settles for just funny . It always strives for double-secret funny . 	The talents of director John Landis and Saturday Night Live 's irrepressible John Belushi conspired to create a rambunctious , subversive college comedy that continues to resonate .
1019641-splash Very dated , but still fun Director Ron Howard has a good sense of the whimsical , and his film is sweet and unpretentious , though somewhat ribald when one realizes the studio from whence it sprang . Line up a row of Howard 's films and ask someone to choose . Chances are , their hands will fall to Splash as often as any other It 's all been downhill from here for Ron Howard Splash is probably the ultimate fish-out-of-water film , primarily because it literally features a fish out of water . The movie is cute , light , and fluffy , perhaps not the laugh-fest I had remembered but enough to get by . Bizarrely overrated gimmick comedy Howard demonstrates exactly the correct soft touch , skirting the myriad problems of taste . Overlong , but makes a comedic 'splash ' anyway . Splash is a light-hearted comedy directed by Ron Howard that sparkles here and there thanks to its fairy tale elements . 	A perfectly light , warmly funny romantic comedy that 's kept afloat by Ron Howard 's unobtrusive direction and charming performances from Tom Hanks and Daryl Hannah .
secretary Unless there are whips , chains or a whole lot of black leather in your closet , `` Secretary '' is probably not an ideal date movie . The cast comes through even when the movie does n't . Self-serious and ultimately pedestrian satire . Secretary explodes with juicy innuendo , even from its opening moments . A good piece of writing . If you think a sado-masochistic relationship is sick and perverted , this original movie will make you think again . Sadomasochism is treated as a joke in Secretary , but the fun of the movie is that it 's also much more than a joke . Obviously , Secretary is n't for everyone . But if you 're willing to take a chance , you might be surprised to find you 've enjoyed it . An edgy , cleverly written indie that simply derails shortly before the final stretch . Gyllenhaal 's deep yearning buttresses the film 's swiss-cheese argument that pain opens the door to real feeling , and that Lee and Edward are sharing a love that 's right for them . 	Maggie Gyllenhaal impresses in this romantic comedy with a kinky twist .
topsyturvy It 's this attention to the anxious underbelly of Victorian culture that does most to save Topsy-Turvy from descending into pictorialism . I tried , but I could n't make it all the way through this film . Just watching this film offers its own rewards . The whole production sinks leadenly beneath scene after scene endlessly over-extended beyond the interest of their content . It 's an extraordinarily entertaining piece of work . If you do not like Gilbert and Sullivan - however , if you love G & S , or even just like them , then you will enjoy this movie very well . Leigh 's deft hand with actors and sharp eye for character detail are still very much in evidence . A film that sparkles with many gems . If you know you 're in for a long ride , Topsy-Turvy is a delight . The technical work is fantastic from the costumes to the art and production design . 	A thoroughly entertaining character study and a great success for Mike Leigh .
the turin horse Rumoured to be his last picture , this reverently photographed monotony is closer to caricature than a final valedictory artwork . The film is stunningly shot by Fred Kelemen , whose camera snakes around the one room interior of the humble home of 58 year-old cab driver Ohlsdorfer ( Jnos Derzsi , with a face Albrecht Drer would have loved ) and his daughter ... Astonishingly powerful on its own uncompromising terms . Mihly Vig 's dirge-like soundtrack underscores the eloquent futility , which makes Bresson 's Balthazar seem Disney-like . The Turin Horse is an absolute vision , masterly and enveloping in a way that less personal , more conventional movies are not . The film does n't seduce ; it commands . Through Tarr 's meticulous vision , these ordinary hardships take on cosmic weight ; this is tedium vividly rendered . The framing , lighting and composition are masterful , and the use of long takes from the omnipresent roving camera generates an extraordinary energy . So if The Turin Horse 's bleak close also represents lights out for one of Europe 's most extraordinary film artists , he exits the set with a truly sublime memento mori . The movie exerts an eerie grip , with echoes of Bresson , Bergman and Dreyer , but is utterly distinctive : a vision of a world going inexorably into a final darkness . An intentionally monotonous look at the lives of a farmer and his daughter . Strange events signal the end is nigh , but it approaches at the pace of a lethargic inchworm . 	Uncompromisingly bold and hauntingly beautiful , Bela Tarr 's bleak parable tells a simple story with weighty conviction .
about elly The dense interweave of relationships , a Farhadi specialty , is continually compelling . `` About Elly '' is a stunning surprise package , profound in utterly unexpected ways . It 's breezy , then suspenseful , and gradually , crushingly sad . On its own terms , it 's a perfect film . Superbly acted , morally challenging , packed with legitimate suspense , this is film-making of a high order . Incredibly gripping and brilliantly directed , About Elly is a truly memorable and emotionally engaging Iranian drama with an outstanding lead performance by Golshifteh Farahani . Farhadi constructs a taut story , as precariously balanced on luck and lies as that of a French farce , and then lets it spring holes before our eyes . There is a mastery of tone here that shows a great director completely at home with his characters . If it can be a touch too narratively byzantine and heavy-handed , it 's still a quietly devastating throwback to the classics of drama . `` About Elly '' is an essential step in the evolution of one of the most emerging talents on the international filmmaking scene . We might not care about any of the characters -- it 's doubtful that Farhadi wants us to -- but it 's difficult to escape the implication that their situation reflects that of their entire society and , in many ways , our own . 	About Elly offers viewers performances as powerful as its thought-provoking ideas , and adds another strong entry to Asghar Farhadi 's impressive filmography .
dead alive Takes a few views to really appreciate , but Peter Jackson 's blood-splattered horror masterpiece is a gory good time . Braindead is the magnum opus of Peter Jackson 's early career . Sick . Perverse . Brilliant . It was hysterically funny at times , but the urge to laugh had to compete with the urge to vomit . Horror films used to be primordial spook shows , tapping midnight-dark fears . Now they tap bodily goo : rivers of blood , dripping limbs , eyeballs that go pop in the night . How can you not love a movie with the line , `` Your mother ate my dog '' ? Lionsgate 's visceral , albeit barebones Blu-ray package lets viewers really sink their teeth into Dead Alive . A Tex Avery cartoon of hyperbolic gore , which gets funnier with each disgusting new sight gag . Because all of this looks blatantly unreal , and because the timing of the shock effects is so haphazard , Dead Alive is n't especially scary or repulsive . Nor is it very funny . Unquestionably the single goriest film ever made . 	The delightfully gonzo tale of a lovestruck teen and his zombified mother , Dead Alive is extremely gory and exceedingly good fun , thanks to Peter Jackson 's affection for the tastelessly sublime .
peewees big adventure Children should love the film and adults will be dismayed by the light brushstrokes with which Paul Reubens ( one of three credited screenwriters , but star-billed under his stage name , Pee-wee Herman ) suggests touches of Buster Keaton and Eddie Cantor . Delirious , cartoonish , wildly inventive . This is the movie that , rightfully , catapulted both Tim Burton and Paul Reubens ( aka Pee-wee Herman ) into the superstar arena . J exibindo seu senso de humor bizarro , Burton impressiona em sua estria como diretor , criando uma aventura ingnua , mas inventiva ( e Reubens um comediante de mo cheia ) . A purely creative movie that one must admit has no equal in cinema history ( for better or worse ) . [ Blu-ray ] It 's surreal , funny , clever and disarming in equal measures . It 's a true original -- a comedy maverick that looks and feels like no other movie I know . Chiefly successful because of its commitment to an artistic ideal : make something that looks , talks , feels , and moves like a cartoon . It 's a bold attempt to do something dazzlingly original , although some of the gags are spectacularly unfunny and Pee-wee 's nervous prattling can become irritating . A little gem , odd , quirky and completely different ; James Brolin as Pee Wee Herman is a blast . 	Pee-Wee 's Big Adventure brings Paul Reubens ' famous character to the big screen intact , along with enough inspired silliness to dazzle children of all ages .
fair-game-2010 Reality disguised as improbable thriller fiction . An eminently watchable , but curiously muted dramatization of the Valerie Plame affair . confirmation that all is well for only as long as everyone agrees not to know anything Gripping real-life spy movie Fair Game , a sober and sobering account of the double-dealing of the Bush White House in the run-up to the US invasion of Iraq . Whether or not you buy into the fictionalized true-life events will vary , but Fair Game makes a compelling case thanks to a pair of solid performances from its two leads . Fair Game gets you riled up all over again at a deeply unpatriotic abuse of power . The script is intelligent , the acting is understated yet powerful , and the actors were well cast at all levels . It simultaneously works as a sort of globe-trotting thriller in reverse and a portrait of a marriage under strain . Real-world political melodrama , with obvious good and bad guys , but intelligent and well acted . To reduce their story to a handwringer for housewives that 's laden with protest-sign sloganeering seems , frankly , unfair . 	It struggles with the balance between fact-based biopic and taut political thriller , but Fair Game brims with righteous anger -- and benefits from superb performances by Naomi Watts and Sean Penn .
larry the cable guy health inspector Larry is n't an evil movie , but it is a symptom of the problems inherent in gross-out humor . Team Cable Guy has made a junky , throwaway comedy that will almost certainly appeal to his fans , for at least the first half hour . Then it runs out of gas . Or jokes . The gas Larry seems to have in no short supply . ( an ) 85-minute tribute to flatulence , vomiting and the ample rump of its star . ... 'Wake up and smell the catbox , ' Larry declares ... Buy a ticket to 'Health Inspector , ' and you 'll know exactly what he means . Somewhere in this film is the germ of a really good comedy , but they blew it . Whenever Larry is n't pensively biting on his chaw , he 's barking out obscene one-liners in a guttural , noxious stream of little nasty explosions . He 's a greasy , oil-burning joke jalopy . Larry 's routine becomes considerably more embarrassing the longer it continues . When lists of the 10 worst movies of 2006 start coming out , you 'll know it 's been a truly abominable year if Larry the Cable Guy : Health Inspector does n't rate a slot near the top . Dumb comedy should be cited for bad taste . The very existence of Larry the Cable Guy would seem like a pretty good argument against the concept of Intelligent Design . It reeks of desperation , among other things . 	An aggressively lowbrow vehicle for its titular star , this gross-out comedy fails to `` git-r-done . ''
dance with me A crowd-pleaser which just might encourage some viewers to get up and frolic in the aisles . Will someone please get rid of this genre of dance films ? Upbeat dance-romance is fine for tweens and up . Too heavy on talk and too light on fancy footwork . Although the movie bubbles occasionally , it never boils . A great big summer cheeseball of a movie that mildly entertains but does n't stimulate . The real creative opportunities lie in visual and choreographic options , and Haines does n't miss a beat in either department . Offers an energizing burst of sweetness that delights the palate before fading quickly away . Dance With Me sells its simplicity almost entirely on the strength of Chayanne 's appeal . This film 's storyline could n't be more pedestrian if it tried . 	Shallow script , weak direction .
shotgun stories [ Star Michael Shannon is ] one of the most formidable unsung actors working today in American movies . An interesting first effort from Nichols -- making him a director to look out for in the future . Breathtaking and stands out from the herd . No question , it 's a humorless downer , but also an impressive character study , with depth proportionate to the tragic nature of its theme . Shotgun Stories defines the classic western phrase 'doing what a man 's got to do ' as both a moral imperative and a biological compulsion . ... here there 's also an undercurrent of biblical revenge that lends the narrative a sense of violent menace and an almost continuous tension . Good natural performances . Shotgun Stories is a cautionary tale about revenge , but more than that , it is a beautiful , authentic-feeling portrait of a family and a place . An allegory of our times , Shotgun Stories is a tragedy of biblical scale and an intimate family drama . Like his fellow Mason-Dixon minimalist David Gordon Green ( the film 's producer ) , [ director ] Nichols favors mood and ellipses over momentum and explanations , which gives this contemporary Hatfields-versus-McCoys narrative a beguiling , drifting atmosphere . 	Thanks to a talented cast and its uncommon depth , Nichols ' debut manages to rise above its overly familiar plot .
lady in the water Has M. Night Shyamalan lost his damn mind ? A watery , ladylike , and extremely tall tale indeed , but one well within the reach of its fine cast ( which this time includes its director ) . These days , movie fans have grown accustomed to being force-fed a film 's reality , to having it hammered home from first loud frame to last . Lady in the Water offers more subtle submersion , a baptism of soulful quirks and daringly sweet imagination . M. Night 's self-absorption is approaching the level of irritation -- here it has all the subtlety of a brick applied to the head . A flaky ego trip disguised as a fairy tale . The surprise here is that he 's created a story mythology for this fantasy/thriller that 's so ludicrous and convoluted that it 's almost laughable . At times it seems his cast members are making up the story as they go . It is possible to wrestle yourself from the movie 's hokey ambitions . There is a good chunk of Lady in the Water that is simply too well made and affectingly acted to dismiss as a mere exercise in arrogance . I hated Lady in the Water , but not because Shyamalan took a sophomoric potshot at critics . I hated Lady in the Water because it 's ... stupid . Though originating as a bedtime story for his children , it functions less as a morality tale and more as an egotistical salvo toward his critics . The only frightening thing about this horror fantasy film was in how bad it was . 	A far-fetched story with little suspense and unconvincing scenarios , Lady In The Water feels contrived , pretentious , and rather silly .
heavenly creatures Heavenly Creatures is dazzling ; a perversely original psychodrama . Reveals how pernicious fantasy can become when it is based on a deep-seated hatred of the world . 17-year-old Kate Winslet made her film debut in this compelling blend of true crime and dark fantasy ... Gruesome yet imaginative teen psychosexual drama . Fantasy and reality blur in a chilling film that shows Jackson 's limitless potential A movie that begins with high tension gradually fizzles out . Despite the undeniable merits of Jackson 's other works , Heavenly Creatures strikes me as the best film he has made . Taut , clever , and fronted with two excellent performances , this is a clever choice for Jackson 's first step into mainstream filmmaking . The single best film in Jackson 's filmography , and a compliment to New Zealand cinema . Unlike the campy excess of Jackson 's earlier Dead Alive , deliberate overkill ltimately points toward a dearth of ideas rather than a surfeit . 	Dark , stylish , and captivating , Heavenly Creatures signals both the auspicious debut of Kate Winslet and the arrival of Peter Jackson as more than just a cult director .
the man who knew too much 1956 A road trip with James Stewart and Doris Day traipsing from Morocco to London , it 's two hours of red herrings and intense scenes , one of the least apologetic adventures he ever made . It 's hugely entertaining and exceptionally involving . Making marvellous use of settings and locations , Hitchcock treats the viewer to superbly choreographed set-pieces . The film is uncharacteristically rigid and pious for Hitchcock ; it feels more like a work of duty than conviction . Far superior to the 1934 version , The Man Who Knew Too Much , underestimated at its 1956 release , should be considered as one of Hitchcock 's masterpieces . James Stewart is superb , and Bernard Miles and Brenda de Banzie make admirable adversaries . Starting slowly amid colourful but rather superfluous travelogue-style Moroccan footage , the film improves no end as it progresses . The result is a typically memorable Hitchcock thriller , with great dialogue , building tension , and innocent people forced to get themselves out of trouble on their own . Hitchcock 's scenes are beautifully framed and tautly directed . Each version has certain elements superior to the other , but both films rank as minor Hitchcock works . 	Remaking his own 1934 film , Hitchcock imbues The Man Who Knew Too Much with picturesque locales and international intrigue , and is helped by a brilliantly befuddled performance from James Stewart .
red hill 2010 Hughes finds a way to make his imported tropes ( from the oater and 'nature 's revenge ' horror ) reflect upon a nation 's unresolved issues with its colonial past , as well as upon the disruptive dangers of introduced species ... A stylish and moody modern day western , Red Hill also features one of the most interesting antagonists seen this year . Simple , yet complex , this striking contempo western about revenge , is an impressive calling card for Patrick Hughes in his writing and directing debut As short on originality and sustained tension as it is long on striking widescreen vistas and impressive technical smarts . It may sound like a backhanded compliment , but I simply ca n't resist a suitably R-rated and rather dark action film that 's also so oddly innocent . If only all thrillers were this rich , stylish and intelligent . Classically photographed for the Scope screen , the film is a cleverly conceived genre piece and centres on a star-making performance from Ryan Kwanten . Like the best westerns , Red Hill is a stripped-down morality tale ; like the best horror movies , its true monsters remain cloaked until the final reel . Red Hill only truly works when it retains a hard edge and a straight face . So why does Hughes insist on blowing so many raspberries ? Patrick Hughes 's bloody , brutal Australian thriller handles its B-movie premise with surprising precision , though the inclusion of several befuddling elements annoyingly puncture the suspense . 	Though its attempts to rework genre conventions may fall flat with some , Red Hill is a beautifully shot , tightly paced thriller that marks a strong debut for director Patrick Hughes .
1058966-red This is a rare film that employs the most redeeming quality of film : Red is transcendent . Undaunted by the tremendous emotional and moral valence he has by now invited us to expect , Kieslowski controls the film magnificently , putting to use the shapely formal precision he took an entire career to work out . They do n't make movies like this anymore . Jacob is so good in the role , so effective at suggesting a mingling of innocence and intuition , that it 's easy to imagine why Red was written with her in mind . Nothing quite captures the chills quite like the way the closing shot does A subtle masterpiece . Explores fraternity in large part as much through the dynamic of neighbors and community as through potential one-on-one friendships or romances . [ Blu-ray ] Red succeeds so stirringly that it also bestows some much-needed magic upon its predecessors . A truly remarkable film -- nothing short of a masterpiece . What makes Red watchable is Kieslowski 's arresting visual sense . 	A complex , stirring , and beautifully realized portrait of interconnected lives , Red is the captivating conclusion to a remarkable trilogy .
songcatcher Predictable , well-intentioned indie riddled with every clich in the Sundance handbook . Catch it . Call me a reactionary but after I saw this I wanted to turn back the clock to the days of Pete Seeger and the Weavers . Though Janet McTeer cuts a dashing and intrepid figure as the title character in Songcatcher , this period drama lets both her and an impressive supporting cast down by opting for network-movie melodrama and bathos . The music is absolutely hypnotic . Well-served by its stars . At one point , Greenwald 's momentum-starved narrative almost gives out altogether , and the immediate effect is rather delightful . A sweet , soulful and satisfying film . Leaves you in a state of bliss as the music floats through your mind like a billowy cloud on a lazy summer day . The film is beautifully photographed like a Hallmark tourist postcard ... 	The story may be a bit too melodramatic , but great performances abound in Songcatcher . The real reason to see the movie , however , is the hypnotic music .
promises What 's so extraordinary about this Oscar-nominated work is that it shows us that conflict through the eyes of seven bright , funny , thoughtful kids , ages 9 to 13 , on both sides . Beautifully crafted and brutally honest , Promises offers an unexpected window into the complexities of the Middle East struggle and into the humanity of its people . Unexpected , and often contradictory , truths emerge . A diverse and astonishingly articulate cast of Palestinian and Israeli children . A gripping documentary that reveals how deep the antagonism lies in war-torn Jerusalem . For one moment , the patience of documentarians nurtured understanding among strangers accustomed to being enemies -- for which a prize is surely in order . If nothing else , this balanced and moving film is both informative and entertaining . If there 's one big point to Promises , it 's that nothing can change while physical and psychological barriers keep the sides from speaking even one word to each other . It 's worth seeing just on the basis of the wisdom , and at times , the startling optimism , of the children . It 's sobering , particularly if anyone still thinks this conflict can be resolved easily , or soon . 	A heartbreaking and illuminating look at the Israeli and Palestinian conflict through the eyes of children .
the host 2007 It 's Godzilla with a severe case of Murphy 's Law , and it is never less than bizarrely delightful . Throws a lively party with a little of everything : scares , laughs , politics and a bit of archery . I was disappointed what started out as a very promising genre pic became weighted down by its own pretensions . In the end , the real monster is not the slithering beast we 're there to watch , but the weight of an entire society . And we 're left believing that a ragtag bunch of misfits can overcome that too . Like Wes Craven , [ director ] Bong recognizes the possibilities for artistic and editorial expression that lie in the fertile ground of the thriller/horror/slasher genre . I always love it when I 'm pleasantly surprised by a film I was not excited to see -- - 'The Host ' is a highly entertaining testament to the genre of 'monster movies ' . What a pleasure to watch an ambitious horror film that not only frightens but also surprises and engages us completely with its artful shifting of tones . ... filmmaker Bong Joon-ho bogs the proceedings down with an egregiously overlong running time and an unwarranted ( and unwanted ) emphasis on the political ramifications of the monster 's existence . A spirited endeavor at enhancing the signal sent from Godzilla so long ago , for even then , under the atomic bomb fallout , governments were not to be trusted . Not a cheery movie , but it is a frequently hilarious one . The monster , as terrifying as it is , also has the timing of a crack comedian , and filmmaker Bong Joon-ho sees no contradiction in interrupting a tense chase scene for a wayward bit of comedy . 	As populace pleasing as it is intellectually satisfying , The Host combines scares , laughs , and satire into a riveting , monster movie .
get smart In terms of reaching a 21st century audience , Get Smart was about as good as it could be . The picture works best as a comedy , and early on it 's consistently amusing , with a refreshingly witty script and skilful actors in Carell , Arkin and , more surprisingly , Johnson , to put across the verbal and sight gags with brio . Una comedia de accin irregular aunque pasable , que no llega ni por asomo al ingenio de la serie original pero que se puede ver gracias a Steve Carell . Entertaining , smartly acted spy comedy that delivers thrills and laughs in equal measure , while throwing in enough material to keep fans of the TV series happy . I kept wanting something more from this pleasant enough flick . Rather than the laugh a minute promised by old comedies , Get Smart generates approximately one laugh per hour , and I ca n't remember either one . A pleasant surprise . It 's not going to redefine comedy as we know it , but it 's amusing and briskly paced , busy with an engaging mix of supporting actors . The amiable deadpan comic Steve Carell was a good choice to take the part of the inept agent that stand-up comedian Don Adams played . ... a manufactured piece of work that 's been geared towards the lowest common denominator . 	Get Smart rides Steve Carell 's considerable charm for a few laughs , but in the end is a rather ordinary Summer comedy .
mary poppins Mary Poppins is definitely worth popping for . ( 40th Anniversary Edition ) Effortlessly charming . It 's a true family classic . One of the best films ever produced by Disney , indeed one of the best American films of the 1960s ... a fantasy of the most delicate touch and charming disposition . One of the great movie musicals and of that rare breed of deathless family entertainment that 's guaranteed to transfix children , well beyond this , its fiftieth anniversary . [ Blu-ray ] Julie Andrews ' first appearance on the screen is a signal triumph and she performs as easily as she sings , displaying a fresh type of beauty nicely adaptable to the color cameras . World 's coolest nanny celebrates family and fun . Disney had done a magnificent job of adapting the PL Travers character to the screen , using cinematic effects to the full in creating an enchanting story . The message is clear : Everyone should take care of their jobs and responsibilities , but have fun as well . Van Dyke ( exaggerated Cockney accent and all ) and Andrews have great chemistry together , but it 's really her interaction with the children and the magic of the story and the visual effects that charm audiences . The first Disney movie ever to be nominated for the Best Picture Oscar , the musical received 13 nods . setting a record for musicals ; My Fair Lady earned 12 nominations . 	A lavish modern fairy tale celebrated for its amazing special effects , catchy songs , and Julie Andrews 's legendary performance in the title role .
austin powers the spy who shagged me One of the more painful movie-watching experiences I have experienced in recent years ! Where 's Wayne 's World when you need it ? Scatological does n't even begin to describe it . Heather Graham is crap too . The sequel is funnier than the original because it has more silliness , more smut and more 'yeah , babies . ' Clever , witty , enjoyable , fun and almost as fresh and original as the first one ! If you do n't care for one gag , there 'll be another one in a minute , just like a London double decker . There is a striking lack of craft in The Spy Who Shagged Me . Outstrips the original for goofy fun and for-the-birds horniness ! ... the people who seemed to be having the most fun at a recent screening were the 14-year-old boys giggling over the libidinous bits and the bathroom jokes . After seeing his second adventure , you have to wonder how many times the same jokes can be played out before they start to overstay their welcome . 	Provides lots of laughs with Myers at the healm ; as funny or funnier than the original .
good girl Not entertaining , but good writing , direction , and the performances are outstanding . In the end , The Good Girl is about the way we all delude ourselves into believing those things we need to believe in order to get by . Aniston was brave to accept this dark role , which may win her an Oscar nomination and certainly proves she 's an actress of substance . [ Aniston 's ] approximation of a woman on a slow-drip nervous breakdown has a universal , sleepwalking quality to it that clearly took a lot of thought and craft . There 's some good material in their story about a retail clerk wanting more out of life , but the movie too often spins its wheels with familiar situations and repetitive scenes . It 's a more believable scenario for infidelity than most such movies , and Aniston gives her all to the role . Does n't have the daring lunacy of Chuck and Buck ... Yet it gets closer to the troubled , lonely soul of its main character . Jennifer has left behind her Friends , the staring never ends , deep in the heart of Texas ... .It 's not Ed , but something decent instead , set in the heart of Texas . A funny and well-contructed black comedy where the old adage `` be careful what you wish for '' is given a full workout . The movie loses some momentum at the end , but overall it 's worth a trip to the Retail Rodeo to check it out . 	A dark dramedy with exceptional performances from Jennifer Aniston and Jake Gyllenhaal , The Good Girl is a moving and astute look at the passions of two troubled souls in a small town .
1152191-strangers with candy Maybe a half-hour dose was just right , because the film 's pacing is torpid and many of the jokes fall flat . This movie is worse than flying from JFK to Singapore in the middle seat between two chatty Scientologists . It 's worse than do-it-yourself rhinoplasty . It 's even worse than college improv . Unlike many movies based on TV shows , Strangers With Candy feels like an actual movie -- it has shape , and the clever dialogue goes deep . Absolutely hilarious ... at first . Then the story kicks in . The movie would be hilarious if it had the courage to really wallow in the dysfunctional dementia it pretends to champion . Not surprisingly , the film version contains about 30 minutes of hilarity , and they 're stretched out at least as far as Jerri 's ill-fitting slacks . It all works because of the whip-smart dialogue and the great performances . Jerri may be a freshman here , but Sedaris , grotesque and fearless , is already lowbrow homecoming queen [ T ] here 's demented , and then there 's the plain sick and twisted tastlessness and hilarious audacity of this afterschool special gone horribly , wonderfully wrong . What separates Strangers with Candy from other high school comedies , or from most mainstream comedies in general , is the cast 's total dedication to their parts . 	Occasionally funny , but little more than a jumbled , overextended episode of the TV show . Still , Candy devotees wo n't be disappointed .
1003757-cat people A Val Lewton classic that proves in horror , the less you show , the scarier the movie . The scariest American horror movie of the 1940s . Seminal , understated horror that retains the power to frighten still today . Scenes where Irena shadows her rival are burned into cinema memory . Magnificent . The result is a haunting and subtle film , filled with desires gone awry and everyday settings turned inexplicably nightmarish . Cat People was n't frightening like a slasher movie , using shocks and gore , but frightening in an eerie , mysterious way that was hard to define ; the screen harbored unseen threats . Val Lewton 's most brilliant and subtly sexual horror films ever made . ... a startling , psychosexual horror picture - especially for its time . Female sexuality is a rich source of a certain kind of horror - the kind of horror that plays upon the anxieties that prudish bourgeois men have about their wives ' sex lives . 	Influential noir director Jacques Tourneau infused this sexy , moody horror film with some sly commentary about the psychology and the taboos of desire .
sketches of frank gehry Lucid and engaging , Sketches of Frank Gehry provides the enormously gratifying opportunity to spend an hour-and-a-half with an artistic giant . While Gehry the man is worth the investment of time in this film , it 's his singular buildings that we really want to get to know better than just sketches . This is the real Art School Confidential . Though Gehry and Pollack have long been friends , the veteran Hollywood director confesses early on to being an architecture neophyte , and so much of the film 's sprightly energy stems from its combination of expert research and amateur enthusiasm . Not just instructive , but reassuring for anyone who does creative work , and who worries , as everyone does , about being equal to the task . What benefits the picture early on , giving it a casual air , becomes cloying in the later going , making it feel like a smug exercise in mutual admiration . Pollack 's savvy camera work lets us walk in and around [ Gehry 's ] designs . . . presented such that they seem the perfect external manifestation of being in this guy 's head We get a fascinating glimpse into Gehry 's design process , which always begins at his sketchpad . It 's really a compelling homage with insight into the creative process . an intelligent piece of partisan adoration - although he gives some space to Gehry 's detractors , too . 	This affectionate , casually framed portrait of the acclaimed architect reveals him to be an engaging , likeable subject .
1159177-free zone The film is about their journeys , separate and together , and only nominally in Hanna 's car . While Portman does outshine everyone and everything on screen and though she certainly gets credit for making the rsum sacrifice in the spirit of embracing her heritage , Free Zone does nothing for her in return Much of it is labored and overemphatic . an often excruciating 134 minutes that could have been trimmed to a tidier 10 minute short The meeting of three women -- an American , an Israeli , and a Palestinian -- in Jordan and their struggle to overcome prejudices and their communal histories . A vague and underdeveloped story that makes a tired point about the ability of female relationships to rise above hatred and conflict . Amos Gitai 's long-winded essay revolves around the interaction of three women , an American , an Israeli and a Palestinian , on a car trip from Israel to Jordan . ... never seems to gain much emotional traction throughout its meandering female road trip , despite some provocative subject matter . Addressing conflict by conflicting itself , Free Zone 's effect is almost avant-garde . Visually , Free Zone resembles a home movie in which an overly enthusiastic vacationer records every moment of a mundane trip . 	The symbolism in this cinematic metaphor on conflicts in the Middle East becomes so overbearing that it 's hard to care about the characters or their plight .
take shelter Take Shelter is a provocative original from writer-director Jeff Nichols , built on the foundation of a searing performance by Michael Shannon . It 's a film I respect ... The riveting performances turn what on paper is a fairly simple climax into quite the emotional wallop . Michael Shannon gives his best onscreen performance ever ... and creates what might well be the finest male character of 2011 . Michael Shannon is at his best as a man plagued by apocalyptic dreams that start to bleed into his everyday life . It 's one of the best independent American films of the last decade , playing on current concerns about the future of the planet . It explores something deep in us which is our anxiety in the world today from so many different angles and I think it 's a very unsettling film for that reason . Alternately heavy-lidded and wide-eyed , Shannon has the coiled potential of a venomous snake ... he paints a portrait of paranoia and fear with great skill . A film that 's easier to admire ( at least in part ) than actually like , but it 's also a difficult film to ignore . Shannon wonderfully modulates Nichols ' portrait of a man whose mind and life seem to unravel before our eyes . The film 's power should reside in this agonised human dilemma , but in the end it becomes a rather self-important shaggy dog story . Tight editing and pace make for a careful and thoughtful film that is a very strong piece of cinema . 	Michael Shannon gives a powerhouse performance and the purposefully subtle filmmaking creates a perfect blend of drama , terror , and dread .
22 jump street 22 Jump Street pulls off the comedy sequel balancing act better than just about any comparative franchise - with extra points for skewing its own sequelness . Funnier , cleverer , wittier , and snarkier , than the first film . It is nonstop self-deprecation that doles out well-deserved smacks to about 817 Hollywood things that desperately deserve it . That Stoner No . 3 from Knocked Up and the tank top from Step Up have become Hollywood 's freshest comedy duo is impressive . By doubling down on the chemistry between Tatum and Hill ( and by giving Ice Cube a lot of room to be amazing ) , 22 Jump Street gets deeper and funnier than the first movie . It is , simply put , absolutely awesome . This is the ultimate meta movie . The repetition is exactly the point . A self-aware sequel has to hop over hurdles to keep from swallowing its own tail , but the sharp writing and tag-team antics lift `` 22 Jump Street '' to a high level . More money , less funny . A consistently hilarious stream of in-jokes keeps the audience in fits of laughter even if there 's virtually no plot to this follow-up to the 2012 hit 21 Jump Street . A brazen sequel that 's both slightly disappointing and a reliable , often riotous `` laffer '' in the old Variety trade-magazine parlance . Hill and Tatum make a classic and highly successful comedy team , balancing a series of amiable running gags and the most familiar kind of slapstick . 	Boasting even more of the bromantic chemistry between its stars -- and even more of the goofy , good-natured humor that made its predecessor so much fun -- 22 Jump Street is the rare sequel that improves upon the original .
trespass 2011 Some are labeling Trespass a B movie , but that 's hardly the tone that comes across . While working entirely within genre conventions and expectations , scripter Karl Gajdusek nonetheless manages to spring a few surprises while revealing character motivations , often suggesting that nothing , not even flashbacks , should be taken at face value . Addled by uninspired dialogue and hammy plot twists , it could have used some anti-corporate demonstrators looking for economic parity to add interest . Yes , it 's a mess . Can someone explain what Nicolas Cage and Nicole Kidman are doing in a chaotic and sadistic home-invasion thriller , shot in digital colors so radioactive they appear to have leaked out of the Fukushima nuclear plant ? The script has `` insert clompingly stupid backstory '' written into every speech . Schumacher makes it all look good - he ca n't help himself - but somehow that just makes it nastier . An overheated mess , a thriller with no thrills that allows everyone involved to play up their worst tendencies . Trespass gets a little too campy , offers nothing in the way of subtext and ultimately leaves you a little unfulfilled-but frankly , it 's fun that delivers on the promises of its premise . It 's a strange variety of entertainment that hooks you throughout and then leaves you nothing but glad that it 's over . 	Another claustrophobic thriller that Joel Schumacher can churn out in his sleep , Trespass is nasty and aggressive , more unpleasant than entertaining .
aimee and jaguar This is more than a same-sex success , it 's a most affecting , most sensual on-screen love affair , period . We are lucky that , at 80 years of age , Wust decided to share her experiences -- they are pretty incredible to behold . Khler gives a strong performance with equal measures of fiery passion and frightened vulnerability . ... a fascinating , bold , and deeply personal story of a woman 's empowerment . I was so busy trying to figure out what the hell was going on that there was just no way I was going to enjoy it . A lustrously shot , well-acted and immensely moving romantic drama . Based on a true story , though that does n't really make it all that compelling . A vivid slice of life -- and love -- during the 1944 Allied bombardment of Berlin . A striking , poignant , and seductive saga of a Jewish lesbian in love with the dallying wife of a Nazi officer and mother of four . Frberbck does a great job at capturing Lilly 's first nervous foray into lesbianism , as well as Felice 's cautiousness at becoming involved in a potentially dangerous relationship . 	A gripping examination of sexual taboos , set against the backdrop of Nazi Germany , bolstered by a subtly shaded script and a strong cast .
blame it on fidel Gavras uses Anna 's precocious reason to tackle a generation 's idealism head-on . A smart , amusing take on some serious issues that 's fortunate in its excellent young leading lady and its ability to laugh at its own political excesses . An extraordinary French drama about the reactions of a conservative nine-year old girl to the radical politics and changes brought into her life by her parents . A lively , perceptive and historically intriguing coming-of-age story . A little gem with a wonderful performance from little Nina Kervel . A wry and observant film with plenty of understated humour . Gavras does not impose a political viewpoint upon her material , but respects the convictions of her various characters . Gavras is an experienced maker of documentaries , but this assured , intelligent film marks an auspicious beginning to her career in fictional features . The film beautifully captures the interplay between self-involved parents who expect their children to embrace their beliefs and the free-thinking young girl with a mind of her own . Politics -- hardly a movie audience 's immediate choice when it comes to entertainment -- becomes a deeply engaging subject in Blame It on Fidel thanks to a 9-year-old charmer who steals our hearts . 	Blame it on Fidel is a charming comedy of manners , class , and politics , elevated by a remarkable performance from lead child actor Nina Kervel .
1004186-cinderella Great animation , but not quite as great as the pre-war standard ; deeply problematic gender issues in a reed-thin story ; some brilliant characters , a lot of fairly dull ones . Of all the Cinderella stories on film , this one has the most villainous stepmother ( voiced by Eleanor Audley ) and the most charming mice . ... there 's no denying the overall effectiveness of this familiar tale . The 1950 classic arrives on DVD for the first time with its charm enhanced and plenty of extras to delight fans of the fairytale . Considering the army of craftsmen who work on a Disney cartoon film , it is hard to give individual credits , for the memorable qualities . Far from the peaks of Pinocchio or Sleeping Beauty , but still a solidly enjoyable Disney venture . It 's not all action , and while there 's plenty to keep the kids entertained , there are also nice poetic touches of animated artistry that will appeal more to adults . One of Disney 's most admired feature animations , Cinderella was nominated for several Oscars . As usual , everything is slightly glossy , soppy and hearty , yet not a string is left untwanged . a true cinematic fairytale 	The rich colors , sweet songs , adorable mice and endearing ( if suffering ) heroine make Cinderella a nostalgically lovely charmer .
ai artificial intelligence 2 hours and 24 minutes of concept stretching and heart massage , a long campaign of total manipulation . It bumps and thumps a bit , more simulated than real , but this odd blending of `` Moulin Rouge '' and `` Bicentennial Man '' eventually makes a spectacle of itself . Spielberg , like his young hero , reaches beyond himself with this dark but transcendent exploration of the fate of the human spirit . The first two acts of A.I . comprised of an engaging , spooky and somewhat smart story . While the end of the film seems contrived , it is also brimming with delicious irony concerning David 's previously unrecognized humanity . A confined domestic drama , a considerable morality tale , a fleeting futuristic noir , a persecution parable , an on-the-nose fairy tale adventure ... and then it keeps going . A movie with complex and rich themes -but a surplus of them . Apparently little time was spent shaping them into something multi-dimensional but eventually cohesive . The film 's interests are becoming exponentially Spielbergian , that is to say , sentimental and soggy . Steven Spielberg tries to rescue the world 's most elusive filmmaker from an unhappy ending . At heart it 's a terribly anguished expression of rejection , loneliness and love . If only it knew when to stop . 	A curious , not always seamless , amalgamation of Kubrick 's chilly bleakness and Spielberg 's warm-hearted optimism , A.I . is , in a word , fascinating .
behind the sun a family saga told with all the muscle of the best Sergio Leone western . Salles is a master storyteller , and the film 's pacing is flawless . A dreary Aristotelian tragedy whose contemporary geopolitical relevance can not compensate for the lack of gripping protagonists . A gorgeously photographed , sun-baked fable about a rural vendetta . You 're always aware ... that you 're watching a quaintly middle-class , museum-poster notion of an 'elemental ' peasant fable . Salles is a fine director with the ability to invest moments with a sense of tragedy and inexorable fate . A family blood feud between neighbors over land in the rural sugarcane fields of the Brazil of 1910 . Full of poetic imagery , dazzling photography and heartfelt performances from a mostly unknown cast . A lovely journey , but it 's like a picture book whose text is merely incidental . There is n't a line that does n't echo with heavy meaning or a character that has a life outside his or her dramatic purpose in this allegory . 	Visually poetic , Behind the Sun is a powerful statement about cycles of violence .
inside deep throat Might be more entertaining than instructive , but it manages to return us to a time when the world seemed crazy in a different sort of way . Bailey and Barbato draw a convincing line between the social and political atmosphere of the film and the culture wars of today . The issues are still very much alive . Bailey and Barbato are n't interested in classic documentary filmmaking . They 're trendy dabblers in waste management , picking through the pop-culture trash to see what they can recycle for kitsch value . Plays like a giddy prance through the minefield of the last three decades of American sex and politics . While brisk , informative , and entertaining , feels frustratingly sketchy . The salient point here is that Deep Throat can be seen as one of the first battles of the culture wars that still divide this nation . Above all , the film is a lively , music-filled social history . Bailey and Barbato have made an entertaining and significant , if flawed documentary . However , for anyone who has lived through the 70s , Inside Deep Throat is a must-see Historically interesting , surprisingly humorous , and at times , sad . The filmmakers ' attempts to link Deep Throat 's lasting impact to every sexually charged facet of contemporary American life reaches too far . 	A documentary on the film that brought smut mainstream , Inside Deep Throat is gaining praise as an entertaining look at a pop culture milestone . However , some critics say the film could have gone a little deeper into the people involved .
amarcord I 'm not sure how Amarcord played in the '70s , but now it feels like an affectionate parody of Italian movie conventions . Amarcord , easily one of Fellini 's masterpieces , is at once a personal memory film and a more detached social scrutinization of Italian society , specifically the political isolation and cultural provincialism that helped Fascism rise to power . A memorable last chapter to Fellini 's nostalgic screen reminiscences that began in 1953 with I Vitelloni . Orthodox Fellini lovers will give primacy to La Strada or La Dolce Vita , but Amarcord has its fans , and it 's easy to see why . Amarcord will make you howl with laughter and then choke back a tear . And all the while you 'll be building your own memories of this landmark movie . What positions the film among Fellini 's greatest are its punctuation points of mysterious beauty . One of Fellini 's wisest , warmest and most wonderful . Makes me feel like a boy everytime I see it . A totally accessible film . It deals directly , hilariously , and sometimes poignantly with the good people of this small town . Fellini is so bountiful with incident and observation that he makes most other film makers seem stingy . 	Ribald , sweet , and sentimental , Amarcord is a larger-than-life journey through a seaside village and its colorful citizens .
down with love This goof of a movie is more winning than you 'd imagine . What would Rock Hudson think of the nickname , `` Ladies 's Man , Man 's Man , Man About Town '' ? There were some laughs along the way , but not enough to wholeheartedly recommend Down With Love . Visually , it 's a sweet treat . But retro eye-candy alone just does n't leave you feeling satisfied . If you 're looking for some 21st century screwball comedy drenched in campy attitude and gaudy duds , you 're pretty much primed for the inane but spirited excesses of Down With Love . Director Peyton Reed delights in the candy-colored possibilities of the soundstage sets and outlandish fashions . A finger-snapping , knowingly artificial romantic comedy romp with a wink in its eye and a spring in its step ... easily the most unabashedly mirthful film in ages . Zellweger and McGregor both know where their characters come from and play along admirably . Eve Ahlert and Dennis Drake 's coy , flabby script is woefully lacking in the one indispensable ingredient of urbane comedy -- great banter . The blushing-red double entendres are more colorful than the sets and costumes . 	Looks great , but Zellweger and McGregor have no chemistry together , and the self-satisfied , knowing tone grates .
tomboy 2011 As the sisters come to see that dresses and haircuts and behaviors are a means to create a self , to communicate with others , Tomboy does n't offer an easy answer ; instead , it lets you wonder why gender must be so definitive . Sciamma 's capturing of children at play is disarmingly accurate , perfectly showing the freewheeling nature of prepubescence in all its glory . Tomboy has a restrained style that results in something very touching and beautiful . Coming-of-age tale tackles gender confusion with humor and heart . Tomboy reveals a side of pre-adolescence rarely ( if ever ) depicted on the big screen , yet it never feels like a curiosity piece , nor is Laure ( Zo Hran ) , the titular character , portrayed as an outsider from a troubled home . Tomboy is a charming film about childhood and identity . [ VIDEO ] Cline Sciamma 's sophomore effort is a tour de force chamber piece of childhood cinema that confirms her status as gifted filmmaker with her finger on the pulse of youthful development . `` Tomboy , '' a brief and sweetly refreshing French film , is the story of a lie . Far from surprising at any point , Tomboy nonetheless holds one 's attention though its sheer force of observation . This charming , delicate and wholly captivating story of a ten-year-old girl who just wants to be one of the boys will get a big boost from positive responses from critics and audiences alike . 	In tune with the emotion and tribulations of childhood , Tomboy is a charming movie that treats its main subject with warmth and heart .
hot tub time machine Hollywood nam ovim filmom pokazuje da , s vremena na vrijeme , zna stare ideje iskoristiti na svje i zabavan nain It not only wears its absurdity as a badge of honor , but quite literally looks us in the eye and dares us not to laugh . Cusack seem ( s ) like a casting error [ in this hilarious comedy ] , a cameo miscast into a lead . There 's a fair amount of genuine retro fun to be had here . It 's crude , inane and manic , but boy is it funny . How seriously are we supposed to take Hot Tub Time Machine ? Well let 's see . It 's a movie about a time machine . In a hot tub . Beyond that , Hot Tub Time Machine is actually surprisingly , if sporadically , funny . Yes , there are some laugh-out-loud moments , but this is a one-joke movie . full review at Movies for the Masses After I finish writing this film criticism of Hot Tub Time Machine , maybe I 'll do a Hooter 's restaurant review or give the business to a `` Choose Your Own Adventure '' book . Seriously , what the hell is the point ? Finds a host of familiar faces performing below their best on a time-warp trip . 	Its flagrantly silly script -- and immensely likable cast -- make up for most of its flaws .
upstream color For those prepared to go with the abstraction , Upstream Color is a rewarding and mind-blowing experience . Visually and sonically hypnotic , it 's an intensely sensory blend of internal monologue and unsettling mystery , draped over a thin skeleton of plot approached so obliquely that it seems almost inconsequential . It presents us with a glimpse of the vastness of existence , of our inner nature , and of nature without that is as equally dreadful , enveloping , and terrifying as it is beautiful . `` Upstream Color '' is weird , but it 's worth the time . Clearly , the film is intended as a tactile experience of poetic ideas , of modern disconnection and biophysical insecurity and existential doubt , and the clarity of these anxieties is bruising and stunning . If writer-director Shane Carruth were to ever find a way to get his audience to feel as well as he gets them to think , he might be truly onto something extraordinary . In the best possible way it 'll get under your skin like the parasitic worms dispensed by the Thief . Carruth 's mesmerizing , confounding film is full of overwhelming sensory splendor and ripe with multiple meanings . ... works on its own idiosyncratic wavelength , one that is n't alienating , but is n't quite approachable either . This enigma-delivery system from a sharp mind has enthralling moments but becomes a bit enervating in its self-seriousness . By the end , the whole thing feels more academic than mind-bending . 	As technically brilliant as it is narratively abstract , Upstream Color represents experimental American cinema at its finest -- and reaffirms Shane Carruth as a talent to watch .
green street hooligans The world of football riots seems rife with potential for the big screen , but Green Street Hooligans only periodically rises to it . This is a brutal , insightful look at a side of sports most Americans do n't even know about . Though the film begins with the promise of dissecting the origins and politics of the firms , the neighborhood turf wars , and the general attraction towards football-hooligan culture , it quickly abandons those aims . A well-intentioned but ultimately calamitous attempt to analyse the so-called 'English disease . ' It 's a visceral , macho film , and if the message seems to be that violence IS the answer , it 's hard to resist the grimy , eloquent way that the point is made . Soccer needs this movie like Georgia needed Deliverance . I would n't exactly say I liked this movie , but I guess you could say they do a good job capturing this element of society . The violence is appalling , extreme , and relentless . Works resoundingly well as a spotlight onto another country 's sports-obsessed culture , plus it 's just a damn well-made piece of storytelling , period . Viewers hoping to understand the senseless phenomenon of football hooliganism would do better to rent Alan Clarke 's nearly 20-year-old The Firm . We learn that violence is bad , except when it feels good , or helps solve our problems . 	When it comes to the subculture of soccer thugs , Green Street Hooligans lacks sufficient insight , and instead comes off as a Fight Club knock-off .
city of ghosts There is so much to admire in Matt Dillon 's City of Ghosts that the feeling left over after watching it is an unsettling sense of disappointment and unfairness . An unnecessarily long , confusing vanity project . Longtime actor , first-time director Matt Dillon relates an urgency and passion behind the camera , intent on telling us one story while showing us another . City of Ghosts dons a facade of independent filmmaking , but the core screams Hollywood rehash . Goes a good way toward reinvigorating a forgotten genre , fashioning a movie world that 's not quite real , but not strewn with slam-bam car chases and meaningless intrigue , either . For the most part , Dillon has skillfully captured the sojourn of a stranger in a strange land . It been over 20 years since Matt Dillon made his mark as an actor in `` The Outsiders '' and now it 's his turn to do the same as a writer-director with directorial debut , `` City of Ghosts . '' While his visionary aspects to the film are impressive due to its loca . . .the plot is as murky as the nefarious goings-on depicted and the running time tests the patience of even the most patient of viewers It 's an actor 's film , all right -- peppered with rich supporting performances but unconvincing in the telling . Dillon does n't yet possess the directorial chops to give his story the necessary snap ; the action too often feels poky and muffled . 	Atmospheric , but that 's about it .
persona Bergman at his most atypically sensual , playful -- even Godardian . A work of many possible readings -- any of which provide deeply disturbing looks into the psyche of the characters or character . In Persona Bergman explores the cinematic medium and the remote depths of human subconscious , having abandoned the question of faith that had hitherto preoccupied him . ... Bergman 's penchant for strangeness eventually undercuts the effective elements . Ingmar Bergman 's best film , I suppose , though it 's still fairly tedious and overloaded with avant-garde cliches . This is a picture which demands , and rewards , repeated viewing . [ Persona ] is persistently compelling , primarily due to its contemplative thematic structure , partially devoid of language that allows the spectator to inscribe meaning . It is a beautiful and moving work of art . One of the screen 's supreme works and perhaps Ingmar Bergman 's finest film . A film we return to over the years , for the beauty of its images and because we hope to understand its mysteries . 	Arguably Bergman 's finest film , Persona explores the human condition with intense curiosity , immense technical skill , and beguiling warmth .
anatomy-of-a-murder Sensational courtroom drama is masterminded by Otto Preminger and a terrific cast . From the stylised Saul Bass credit sequence to Preminger 's assured direction , this is a thought provoking , superbly acted drama that simply oozes class . The film breezily wears its two-hour-and-forty-minute running-time . One of Stewart 's best performances . Courtroom procedurals this nimble do n't come along often , but with Anatomy of a Murder , Preminger showed how it could be done . It 's almost Jimmy in a Hitchcock film , but it 's not Courtroom histrionics given sizzle and sex by Otto Preminger and Duke Ellington 's jazz . Packed with astonishing dialog and bristly performances , this is essential cinema . Preminger takes a while to set up the story , but his pacing and style are perfection . The screenplay , from a novel by John D. Voelker , drips with the smoke-drenched taste of 1940s noir , stinging the eyes and lungs . 	One of cinema 's greatest courtroom dramas , Anatomy of a Murder is tense , thought-provoking , and brilliantly acted , with great performances from James Stewart and George C. Scott .
doors Kilmer is convincing in the lead role , although he never allows the viewer to share any emotions . One of the great rock 'n ' roll documentaries . Val Kilmer is astounding . Tedious and self-important Val Kilmer gives the performance of his career as Jim Morrison in Oliver Stone 's biopic , so it 's a shame the surrounding film lets him down . Morrison is played with uncanny authenticity by Val Kilmer . The performance is utterly convincing without being terribly illuminating . The whole movie is white hot , lapped in honeyed golds , evilly blue and black or drenched in those swoony , fiery reds . The Doors blasts your ears and scorches your eyes . I ca n't recall a film that evokes the myth of the Sixties more potently . Kilmer and Ryan may have never been better than in the hands of Stone . For a while , the obviousness and flat-out vulgarity are sort of entertaining , and it might be possible to enjoy the movie as a camp classic if you could ignore the mean-spiritedness that keeps breaking through . Intense biopic full of drugs , sex and rock'n'roll . 	Val Kilmer delivers a powerhouse performance as one of rock 's most incendiary figures , but unfortunately , Oliver Stone is unable to shed much light on the circus surrounding the star .
grapes of wrath Like a grand Biblical epic , John Ford 's film is a triumph on both the political and personal levels . The Grapes of Wrath is just about as good as any picture has a right to be ; if it were any better , we just would n't believe our eyes . The Grapes of Wrath is Hollywood 's most distinguished offering . Stunning masterpiece about poverty in California is still relevant today It is an absorbing , tense melodrama , starkly realistic , and loaded with social and political fireworks . Powerful look at the Depression and the poor . The Grapes of Wrath is not only one of John Ford 's greatest films , it documents an American social tragedy , giving the victims a voice through art . Captures the stark plainness of the migrants , stripped to a few possessions , left with innumerable relations and little hope . Director John Ford keeps the action moving while using strikingly poignant images and staying true to the novel 's political message . The Grapes of Wrath is flawed , but it captures that shiver of panic that grips anyone for whom the money for the next meal is unknown . 	A potent drama that is as socially important today as when it was made , The Grapes of Wrath is affecting , moving , and deservedly considered an American classic .
1189344-lovely bones No hay manera de tomarse en serio , al menos no en el marco de una pelcula que debi ser perturbadora y conmovedora en partes iguales , la serie de momentos Kodak imposibles con que Peter Jackson intenta retratar la vida despus de la muerte . Peter Jackson returns to the engrossing and poetic imagery that earned him his name more than a decade ago . ... a murder drama made from cotton candy . Susie 's concerned that that the penguin trapped in the snow globe is all alone . The toy 's OK , but the multiple souls scattered throughout the film are having a hell of a time surviving in their respective prisons . Part Disney 's Alice in Wonderland , part Fritz Lang 's M , the movie is horrific yet cloying , alternately distended and abrupt , sometimes poignant and often ridiculous . The movie is often wise . The new Peter Jackson movie , `` The Lovely Bones , '' is a head trip for audiences , a trip to hell for the family featured , and a plunge into purgatory for another . Under the hammy direction of Peter Jackson The Lovely Bones has lost its poetic bone structure . What was a complex , quirky novel has been turned into a movie mishmash of Lord of the Rings and High School Musical , with a serial killer thrown in . Loved the book by Alice Sebold . Admired the bold effort by Peter Jackson , even if the otherwordly scenes sometimes miss the mark . It 's not [ Jackson 's ] Technicolor screensaver design for heaven that really dents the credibility of the film . It 's that he glosses over those parts of story which made Sebold 's book so relatable for us mortals . 	It 's stuffed full of Peter Jackson 's typically dazzling imagery , but The Lovely Bones suffers from abrupt shifts between horrific violence and cloying sentimentality .
unreasonable man To the documentarians ' credit , you will leave the film pondering the one big question : did Nader do the right thing to stick by his principles , or should he have held his nose and supported the lesser of the two evils ? A spellbinding cautionary tale about the dangers of purity and the ugly necessity of compromise and pragmatism . A substantive and fairly balanced overview of 'Citizen Nader 's ' decades-long rise and sudden , precipitous fall from liberal political grace . A thought-provoking documentary about Ralph Nader as a zealot for justice , consumer rights , and meaningful democracy . This fascinating documentary examines the issues raised by Nader 's runs for the presidency ... that shone a powerful light into our grubby political shadows , and also played a part ... that twice put George W. Bush into the White House . The first hour is so stuffed with gushing accolades from a career of consumer advocacy that it could pass for a long-form political ad for a future campaign . ... the career of consumer advocate Ralph Nader , in an adoring hagiography ... Surely , Ralph Nader deserves better press than he 's been getting ever since the 2004 elections -- and the legendary consumer advocate and so-called presidential spoiler receives his due , from both sides , in the documentary An Unreasonable Man . Stirring documentary about an unlikely politician , one who puts principles above personal gain . For most of an entertaining 122 minutes , the film simply tells the story of Nader 's life and chronicles his struggles and crusades . 	A compelling documentary that humanizes the controversial , polarizing politician .
1000085-2001 a space odyssey Though it fails as drama , Stanley Kubrick 's venture succeeds as dazzling visual art . It has reached the status of Art , meaning that it 's going to go on provoking strong opinions . 2001 : A Space Odyssey ( 1968 ) is a landmark , science fiction classic , an epic film containing more spectacular imagery than verbal dialogue . Kubrick set out to make `` the proverbial good science-fiction film , '' but he came out the other side with something far more ornery and profound . This is the way this ground-breaking monument was meant to be seen : in mind-boggling 70mm . Matched Kubrick 's photographic eye to a story about watching , transformed him into a director of the epic , and made one giant leap in sci-fi cinema that 's never been matched . Few works in cinema can prudently and soberly be described as religious experiences : 2001 A Space Odyssey is one of them . If you ask me , Kubrick 's effects in 2001 : A Space Odyssey , which were made by human hands , are still unsurpassed . It still makes a spectacular impression today , and we can easily see how it influenced future films ... Its triumph lies in its scope of cinematic splendour and the attempt to marry some of man 's most beautiful music to the infinite mystery of space . 	One of the most influential of all sci-fi films -- and one of the most controversial -- Stanley Kubrick 's 2001 is a delicate , poetic meditation on the ingenuity -- and folly -- of mankind .
pollock It 's almost like Pollock has come back from the dead and that we 're watching a recently made documentary instead of a fiction film . That rare breed , a biopic that makes you want to learn more about its subject , as much as you can , as fast as you can . While Ed Harris captures the all the surfaces of Jackson Pollock , his subject remains an enigma . Harris spent most of the past 10 years trying to bring Pollock 's story to the screen , and his passion is evident in nearly every scene of the film . It 's the stuff of exciting moviemaking , but Pollock is decidedly underwhelming . It tracks a mythology of creativity which runs from Caravaggio to Patti Smith , and is running still , unended . That altogether rare movie about an artist that works because it takes the art itself for granted . If ever there were an artist to prove that the art is bigger than the artist , it was Jackson Pollock . Like him , this film embraces pain and chaos and self-loathing and returns beauty . It 's a fiercely concentrated work , totally committed , somberly truthful . A highly personal , rigorous , and thoughtful analysis of a truly troubled genius . 	Though Pollock does not really allow audiences a glimpse of the painter as a person , it does powerfully depict the creative process . Harris throws himself into the role and turns in a compelling performance .
mysterious skin The film has a weird buoyancy . While watching this movie , I scribbled the word 'whoa ' five times into my notebook . Filmmaker Gregg Araki , heretofore best known for his numerous ragged and nihilistic coming-of-age , gay melodramas , here crosses over from the fringes to make his most mature and penetrating drama to date . There is a terrible , terrifying honesty at the core of Mysterious Skin that will make it chillingly recognizable to some viewers and important to recognize for others . Contains a few flat notes of community participation , but Araki locates all the necessary surges of hopelessness and misguided desire , ending victorious in his quest to adapt Scott Heim 's provocative novel . `` Mysterious Skin '' is a devastating yet beautiful film that honors its fragile characters with vital respect . Even with the numb dialogue and trite characterizations we 've come to expect from Araki , Mysterious Skin might have worked with the right actor in the charismatic role of Neil . This thoughtful , troubling drama is leagues above the sensationalistic stuff Araki peddled in earlier films . Manages to deal with its raw , awful subject matter in ways that are both challenging and illuminating . Heim wrote a killer tale with Skin , but in giving it to Araki , the power of the words has been dissolved into mush , or , in many instances , simple shock cinema . 	Bold performances and sensitive , spot-on direction make watching this difficult tale of trauma and abuse a thought-provoking , resonant experience .
days of thunder An entertainment of great skill but predictable construction . Absolute rubbish . If you liked Top Gun , you stand a good chance of liking Days of Thunder . An earthbound Top Gun . In circles . A sad example of Hollywood at its weakest and a reminder that even today 's pabulum , spoon-fed as it is in multiplexes , is rarely as bad as the early roaring 1990s . Okay action film in Cruise control . The story is predictably pedestrian , the conflict laughable and the dialogue too lifeless to be laughable , but closer to that than convincing or compelling . It ought n't be good , at least . Not with that script . And yet it 's so much better than the combined quality of its elements . Fun racing movie . Cruise in top melodramatic form with Duvall as an anchor . Exactly what it promises to be : Not Much -- but at dizzying speed , stripped down and free of wind-resistant subtlety . There 's a certain integrity to that . A certain deafening integrity . 	Days of Thunder has Tom Cruise and plenty of flash going for it , but they are n't enough to compensate for the stock plot , two-dimensional characters , and poorly written dialogue .
recruit It does n't know how to finish in a satisfying fashion , thus dragging the rest of the film down with its conclusion . Unlikely to be the only example of slam-bang popcorn fluff with so despairing a demeanor we 're likely to see in the near future . It 's pre-cynicized for your protection . It 's just never as gripping as it needs to be . Beyond the opening frames , the whole movie has an altogether musty odour , as if those up-to-the-minute lines had simply been tacked on to a mothballed script . The Recruit feels like a training exercise , for a star who 's still in the making . Director Roger Donaldson ... again shows a knack for creating intrigue and paranoia . If you dig on stuff like Spy Game and Enemy of the State , chances are that you 'll also have a decent time watching this . The Recruit is a big-time , star-driven Hollywood thriller that turns out to be a bit of a sham . Director Roger Donaldson is so preoccupied by mood that he forgets about story . A de-fanged Xerox of Tony Scott 's vastly underrated Spy Game , with shades of the lame Training Day tossed in for good measure ... 	This polished thriller is engaging until it takes one twist too many into the predictable .
angelas ashes Sometimes humorous and wholly inspiring tale . The film lacks development and dramatic coherence . The last and least of the season 's overlong , Oscar-reaching prestige productions . Probably ( Alan Parker 's ) best movie after The Commitments . Constantly intriguing and gorgeously crafted . Careful avoidance of overly melodramatic performances in spite of the highly dramatic scenarios . Larded with folksy humor and patronizing empathy . Despite its harsh scenes , Angela 's Ashes will leave you with lovely memories . Mostly it 's a series of visits to the welfare line . Despite the grievous mood integral to telling the story of the McCourt family , Angela 's Ashes never descends to a level of complete despondency . 	In spite of its attempts to accurately record Frank McCourt 's memoirs , the onscreen adaptation fails to capture any of the drama or humor of his life .
waking sleeping beauty Disney-approved [ It ] may not be thrilling , riveting viewing for some , but for animation fans , and for aficionados of Disney , the movie is must-see . Waking Sleeping Beauty covers a dream era in the history of animation , but it could have delved a little deeper to keep us wide-eyed and engaged . The film 's tendency to wax sentimental occasionally undermines its authority , but you wo n't find better behind-the-scenes looks at the era 's mouse-eared power struggles or at the making of modern Disney classics . This eighty-six-minute feature falls far from the enchantment most of the public will enter expecting . The film feels too often as though it is pulling some punches so as not to enrage its corporate parents . It 's a must-see for any Disney purist , but is also an emotive , stunningly valuable documentary in its own right . A documentary about the lucrative rebirth of Disney 's animation arm between the years 1984 and 1994 , it 's a warts-and-all tale of clashing egos and the eternal war between art and commerce . An intriguing yet uneven documentary ... Waking Sleeping Beauty will matter only to those who grew up on Walt Disney 's animated films . In other words , all of us . 	It does n't probe as deep -- or tell as many hard truths -- as it could have , but Don Hahn 's look at Disney 's rebirth offers a fascinating and surprisingly candorous glimpse into the studio 's past .
deer hunter This is probably one of the few great films of the Seventies . The actors in the principal roles are so convincing and the movement of this story , told on such a grand scale , is so compelling that its greatness is undeniable . A simultaneuosly touching and harrowing experience that puts the audience directly in the shoes of one man 's experience of Vietnam . Like an honorable soldier , Cazale gave everything he had for a cause in which he believed . Long but effective Vietnam drama . The russian roulette scenes are haunting . The film is ambitious and it succeeds on a number of levels and it proves that Cimino is an important director who deserves to be watched carefully . The first half and second half of the film could n't be more different but that is the genius behind the film . It has no more moral intelligence than the Clint Eastwood action pictures , yet it 's an astonishing piece of work , an uneasy mixture of violent pulp and grandiosity , with an enraptured view of common life -- poetry of the commonplace . The Deer Hunter is a rich and powerful picture that without a trace of patronisation or the slightest touch of cultural superiority , speaks eloquently for the inarticulate . Largely Ambitious , and not without flaws , Cimino 's Oscar winning film is nonetheless an effective chronicle of the impact of Vietnam on a clique of close friends 	Its greatness is blunted by its length and one-sided point of view , but the film 's weaknesses are overpowered by Michael Cimino 's sympathetic direction and a series of heartbreaking performances from Robert De Niro , Meryl Streep , and Christopher Walken .
away from her This is a really wrenching film , and all the better for it . Julie Christie as an Alzheimer 's afflicted wife achieves the perfect psychological mixture of despair , mystery , rebellion against the unappreciated devotion that has been her lot in married life , and an ultimate odd but eloquent personal liberation . One of those 'small ' movies that , because it 's uncompromisingly honest , risks being inflated into something more than it is . Polley has constructed a complex film about love , relationships , honor and commitment . It is a beautiful thing to watch . Away From Her is a film of piercing clarity , one that knocks you out over and over again with its beauty and generosity . A remarkable character study from actress-turned-director Sarah Polley , Away From Her is a triumph for Christie , who like Helen Mirren and Diane Keaton , grows lovelier and more compelling with every performance . It 's Sarah Polley through and through : slightly too glum for its own good , but reeking of quality and feeling . It 's nice to see serious issues other than crime and drugs in the movies and even nicer to see a filmmaking talent like Sarah Polley blossoming . `` Away From Her '' is one of the great love stories of recent movies , striking because it takes place near the end of a love affair 's long journey , rather than at the beginning as so many romances do . Polley is starting from a very lofty place . We can only marvel at what she might do next . 	An accomplished directorial debut by Sarah Polley , Away From Her is a touching exploration of the effects of Alzheimer 's , in which the tender wisdom of Polley 's script is beautifully complemented by a wonderful performance from Julie Christie .
gangs of new york Scorsese needs to be satisfied with his place as one of the most talented filmmakers instead of worrying about accolades he has n't received . Like many operas , this is long , overwrought , sprawling , and more than frequently brilliant . It also hits just enough discordant notes to keep it from greatness . For almost the first two-thirds of Martin Scorsese 's 168-minute Gangs of New York , I was entranced . If Gangs of New York is n't considered an immediate classic , it will be someday . Like Scorsese himself , this is the type of work that will only get better with age . Scorsese recreates mid 19th century New York in this epic story of revenge that sports strange accents and bodacious mustaches . The brilliant Martin Scorsese has created a phenomenal work that plunges us deep into Lower Manhattan in the 1860s . The movie is so over the top and silly , that you 'll find yourself thinking of the sets as a prototype for a new Gangland area of Disneyland . It 's never less than compelling , driven by an overwhelming , larger than life performance from Day-Lewis and by Scorsese 's grandiose historical imagination . A film that overflows with passion , artistry and vitality . A simple vengeance picture inflated to serious epic status by its rich set design and stunning period detail . 	Though flawed , the sprawling , messy Gangs of New York is redeemed by impressive production design and Day-Lewis 's electrifying performance .
12 monkeys speculative fiction at its best in that it does n't just trifle with science fiction concepts , but rather tells a grander story with characters and world disasters One of the best-looking and smartest sci-fi films of the modern era . Weird meditation on time and apocalyptic possibilities . A clever , complex , and poignant success is as astonishing as it is satisfying . One of the qualities that makes 12 Monkeys so good is the fact that it is almost too complicated to explain . Overwrought . This is action movie-making at its most suave . Terry Gilliam has seldom been more inventive or more compelling . Constantly surprising and consistently unsettling . As an entertainment , it appeals more to the mind than to the senses . 	The plot 's a bit of a jumble , but excellent performances and mind-blowing plot twists make 12 Monkeys a kooky , effective experience .
breach An exciting thriller of the mind-game variety played vigorously by an exceptionally smart ensemble without blood , bombs or bombast . A solid feat of filmmaking across the board , Breach brings a long-awaited end to the drought of good movies at the multiplex . A wonderfully taut cat-and-mouse thriller . It features a performance by Chris Cooper , as the eccentric , contradictory Hanssen , that ought to be remembered as one of the year 's best come December . Tense , fascinating , worthwhile . Cooper is superb , hard as granite , dense as an imploding black hole . Breach is never less than interesting , engaging and intelligently told . Cooper 's performance is fine . The script , however , is filled with dead-end tangents and unanswered questions . Breach is a good cloak-and-dagger tale and telling this complex story through O'Neill proves a brilliant way to watch Hanssen 's schemes unravel . The script is intelligent and Ray 's direction solid ... Performances are top-notch , especially from Cooper ... and the low-key cinematography and music serve the material well . Though you know from the start just how it 's going to end , Breach , based on the true story of a treasonous FBI operative , is an edge-of-the-seat thriller . 	Powered by Chris Cooper 's masterful performance , Breach is a tense and engaging portrayal of the FBI 's infamous turncoat .
lawrence of arabia Sweeping , epic , majestic , awesome , sumptuous , you name the grandiose superlative and you 'll be right , with amazing performances and gorgeous visuals , although very , very long . We remember the quiet , empty passages , the sun rising across the desert , the intricate lines traced by the wind in the sand . It 's a truly magnificent film . one of those rare films that runs on all cylinders A shining example of a vanished breed of epic filmmaking . Lawrence of Arabia is a stunning 'classic . ' ... the best epic the screen has ever seen . In terms of sheer sweep , intelligence , and star power , nothing much comes close . This is a film for the ages . How did David Lean and star Peter O'Toole achieve such perfection ? If we could define and distil it , we would n't need a special category for those flicks we call 'classics . ' Lawrence of Arabia is that , and then some . It is O'Toole who continually dominates the screen , and he dominates it with professional skill , Irish charm and smashing good looks . 	The epic of all epics , Lawrence of Arabia cements director David Lean 's status in the filmmaking pantheon with nearly four hours of grand scope , brilliant performances , and beautiful cinematography .
1084153-elizabeth Junkyard filth masquerading as an important history lesson . Blanchett is the shining jewel in an otherwise dull and tarnished crown . A well-done drama about power politics and the cult of personality . Kapur cunningly confuses gender roles , equates sex with death , and rattles through dark , stony passions with some considerable panache . With style , passion , and intelligence , Elizabeth answers the question lurking silently amid mounting slag heaps of cheesy Princess Di memorabilia : What is this thing we have about royalty ? Cate Blanchett gives a bravura performance in this dark and lurid account , which is done from a contemporary standoint as a conspiracy thriller , emphasizing the violent actions Historians will take issue with some of the filmmakers ' choices , but fans of juicy historical drama will just hunker down for the feast . Shekhar Kapur gets particularly good work out of Blanchett , who invests Elizabeth with a disparate mix of naive vulnerability , tart wit and steadfast resolve , sometimes all within a single scene . This is the best film ever made about the subject of a British ruler . This is Blanchett at her best , responding to Kapur 's lucid and firm direction , as he raises the film well above standard 'costumer ' levels to an intricate , intelligent human and historical drama . 	No mere historical drama , Elizabeth is a rich , suspenseful journey into the heart of British Royal politics , and features a typically outstanding performance from Cate Blanchett .
year one On paper , Ramis and producer Apatow set themselves up for success : The cast is a who 's who of funnymen . Unfortunately , the script does n't give them a whole lot to work with . Dudley Moore once made a pretty forgettable comedy giving various well-worn bible stories a light irony wash by reacting to them with the skepticism and confusion a person of today might . Year One is basically that , but dumber . Only big fans of Cera and Black need catch this film , and even then , it 's far from a must-see . All hail Michael Cera , worker of unprecedented movie miracles ! The 21-year-old Canadian comic takes a weak concept and some weaker material and , wherever possible , adds some much needed flashes of comedic genius . Not everything Judd Apatow touches is gold . Has its moments - especially Black and Cera 's knockabout pairing - but Year One sidesteps greatness by allowing too much filler and swill to plug the gaps . `` Year One '' is the kind of stuff Mel Brooks would have whipped up back in the day -- and , frankly , whipped through in about a half-hour . The problem with Year One is that all the best jokes have been used in the promos . Just because the picture 's setting is ancient does n't mean the humor has to be , too . Has neither wit nor wisdom nor charm nor beauty . 	Year One is a poorly executed , slapdash comedy in which the talent both in front of and behind the camera never seem to be on the same page .
1065598-babe This is the ultimate family film , offering all ages a fun ride with something to say buried nicely in the depths of its accessible script . It has a surprising charm . ... brought home the bacon at the box-office . A hilarious fantasy , about a plucky piglet that learns how to tend sheep , Babe is a barnyard charmer . This reviewer for one , has n't been able to face a pork chop in the months since , and is still laughing at the vibrant joyousness of this delicious comic fable . Thanks to well-trained live animals , clever voice characterizations and a big dash of muppetry from Henson 's Creature Shop , Babe and his barnyard friends not only walk the walk and trot the trot , they also talk the talk . Heartwarming farm story touching and a bit scary . It has been so long since I 've genuinely cared about movie characters in a lighthearted story like this that I nearly wept with joy . A sweet , surprisingly moving little fable . Babe is a movie made with charm and wit , and unlike some family movies it does not condescend , not for a second . 	The rare family-friendly feature with a heart as big as its special effects budget , Babe offers timeless entertainment for viewers of all ages .
diamonds are forever Maybe not in the top five Bond adventures , but it comes pretty close . We see different movies for different reasons , and Diamonds Are Forever is great at doing the things we see a James Bond movie for . Next door to glass , but aided by the return of Connery . Classic Bond . The ending , while high on pyrotechnics , is low on tension , bringing Connery 's era to a rather dissatisfying conclusion . Big , silly and essential Bond . The funniest Bond movie This film is as over-the-top as they come . Diamonds Are Forever does n't carry the same quality or flair as its many predecessors . Arguably the least memorable Bond film , it 's still exhilarating fare and good to see Connery in the role one more time . 	Diamonds are Forever is a largely derivative affair , but it 's still pretty entertaining nonetheless , thanks to great stunts , witty dialogue , and the presence of Sean Connery .
color of money The Color of Money is a good movie , but perhaps not a good sequel . A adequate fulcrum for getting Paul Newman his long-deserved Oscar . But everyone involved has been better . In the end , Money is a scratch , a contrived cliffhanger that sets us up for Hustler III . There 's nothing [ Martin Scorsese ] made so achingly generic and impersonal as this . It does n't have the electricity , the wound-up tension , of [ Scorsese 's ] best work , and as a result I was too aware of the story marching by . It 's entertaining and at times even insightful , but nowhere near as powerful-or memorable-as `` The Hustler . '' A hard act to follow , but Scorsese does it in style . A solidly crafted entertainment that , for the most part , strikes a successful balance between commercial necessity and personal expression . A bit slow at times , but great watching Cruise and Newman . Undernecessary sequel . Cinematography was incredible , though . 	That it 's inferior to the original goes without saying , but Paul Newman and Tom Cruise are a joy to watch , and Martin Scorsese 's direction is typically superb .
plagues and pleasures on the salton sea It 's a human freak show of sorts , but Metzler and Springer never expose these folks in a way that derides their way of life , but rather let 's us admire their unbroken , adventurous spirit . This is a startlingly funny portrait of Gothic Americana . If Metzler and Springer were on path to becoming environmentalists and their documentary was their thesis , they 'd get an A . California dreaming meets good old American eccentricity and ecological emergency in the story of the Salton Sea . Plagues and Pleasures on the Salton Sea is an engaging , entertaining snapshot of a long , tragicomic moment in American history . Amusing , interesting and odd , then begins to drag . Kudos to the directors for painting such a lavish , involving portrait of a fascinating town . Plagues and Pleasures on the Salton Sea is a sort of ecological morality tale . This film is fascinating like a slow motion road accident . While the doc flounders as a coherent story of human folly , it 's a cheeky travelmercial guaranteed to get the curious to make the road trip to this near-abandoned resort . Jaunty and fun for a while , with a cast of colorful locals who make the residents of Vernon , Florida seem normal , pic ultimately overstays its welcome and overstates its case . 	Plagues And Pleasures is a thoroughly engrossing account , both humorous and disheartening , of a once bustling community ravaged by ecological change and human greed .
willy wonka and the chocolate factory Anyone who does n't like the Oompa-Loompa song simply is n't human . A strange , semi-sweet kiddie fantasy . ... that rare breed : an imaginative live-action kid 's film that engages and delights adults . It 's Gene Wilder , at the top of his form , who makes this uneasy amalgam work , but [ Mel ] Stuart must surely deserve some of the credit ... Great fun , with Wilder for once giving an impeccably controlled performance as the factory 's bizarre owner . ... filled with good humor , good acting , and good songs ... and it 's just off kilter enough to keep everyone 's attention . It has a huge following , though I 've never understood why . A timeless family film that will continue to endure as long as people love chocolate . Starring Gene Wilder , this offbeat comedy-fantasy for children has achieved a status in pop culture Ainda que um ou outro nmero musical comprometa o ritmo , o clima de fantasia e a atuao calorosa de Wilder conquistam o espectador . 	Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory is strange yet comforting , full of narrative detours that do n't always work but express the film 's uniqueness .
girl cut in two Chabrol does his best work in the thriller genre , but he seems colder and frankly humorless when he works with real-life stories [ as he does here ] . Notice how nimbly Chabrol glides through his establishing scenes , and how adroitly he introduces other characters . Never more than semi-plausible . The relationships are never completely convincing and there are too many unresolved questions to create an entirely satisfying tale . Another patented Chabrol commentary , not a morality play but something far more worldly and difficult to ignore . By the time the story springs to life and becomes the thriller , of sorts , that it seems set up to be , we have had to sit through 90-odd minutes of turgid melodrama . Girl Cut in Two is less interested in forensics than in the perplexities of violent acts , those that happen behind closed doors , inspired by the insanity of desire . Under the cool tone is a devastating portrait of an unapologetically sexual woman treated more as an object than a person . Heavy-handed French drama is a clumsy affair . More than a century later , this is still a juicy story , and the actors do n't back away from its more hysterical flourishes . 	Nouvelle Vague master Claude Chabrol balances subtle stabs of humor and biting class criticism to explore a love story and the seedier side of the haute bourgeois .
unaccompanied minors Not for the faint of heart , the movie is unsettling and startlingly true to life . There 's some amusing mischief as the underage passengers outsmart the grownups , but the picture also features mean-spirited stereotypes that kill the festive mood . Talk about holiday blahs . Unaccompanied Minors is a Christmas headache looking for an audience . A bouncy mix of slapstick humor , shrewd character details and a poignant take on bringing the Christmas spirit to frequent fliers and children of divorce . Younger kids probably will dig Minors like we dug The Goonies . This romp just is n't funny or original enough to become a holiday classic . Although the solid cast makes it watchable . A winsome blend of Home Alone and The Breakfast Club , it 's unabashedly silly kids ' movie . The dialogue is truly painful . The situations are so contrived they make `` SpongeBob '' seem like a nature documentary . But what 's more annoying about Minors , is the calculation behind it . Produzido para funcionar como comdia leve e divertida , Menores Desacompanhados s conseguiu me deixar de mau humor . A pretty agreeable farce but it could have done with sharper lines and more spontaneous kids . 	Unaccompanied Minors , while featuring credible performances by its mostly young cast , is simply a rehash of other , funnier movies .
the devil wears prada The Devil Wears Prada tells a familiar story , and it never goes much below the surface of what it has to tell . Still , what a surface ! This surprisingly amusing movie uses its snide sarcasm to full effect in telling a rather fashionable fable . The scandalous novel about a dictatorial magazine editor and her tortured assistant is toned down for the movie , but Streep still manages to have great , nasty fun . The Devil Wears Prada is the first classy , elegant and really entertaining film of 2006 . There are some must-have luxuries here , first of which is Meryl Streep 's fascinating performance as the fearsome Miranda Priestly . Come February , it might be very fashionable to present Streep with another Oscar ... relies on dialogue and decent acting rather than such lofty comedy concepts as farting , fat guys in tights , or a dog humping a stuffed animal ... Streep 's practically the whole show -- and steals it accordingly . If there 's any drama here , it 's slender -- maybe a size 2 . There 's a surprisingly sharp little sting hidden in this sleek throwback to old-fashioned Hollywood melodramas about sweet young things thrown into the lairs of hard-edged harpies who value their careers above all things womanly . 	A rare film that surpasses the quality of its source novel , this Devil is a witty expose of New York 's fashion scene , with Meryl Streep in top form and Anne Hathaway more than holding her own .
mafioso 1964 If you crossed Meet the Parents with The Godfather and filmed it 45 years ago in Italian , you might come close to Mafioso , a black-and-white gem from 1962 whose appearance in local theaters is inexplicable but most welcome . ... as he grows more real and complex , it becomes impossible to regard this very funny film simply as a comedy . This 1962 film is a marvel , a piece before its time that is incredibly funny while delivering a gut punch of a morality drama . ... a masterpiece film that readily rivals the best modern American gangster film . In Mafioso , the first film about the Mafia , Lattuada shows tremendous facility in blending comedy , tragedy , and pathos in a dark tale about the impact of family visit on a Sicilian from Milan , splendidly played by Alberto Sordi . Director Alberto Lattuada balances the satirical and shocking aspects of the story on a stiletto 's edge . Is it a droll drama ? A dark comedy ? Let 's just say that the film 's startling shifts in mood fit this movie about a man and country divided . And that it appears to be padrino to The Godfather . Alberto Lattuadas incomparable , half-forgotten 1962 crime comedy-travelogue is at once a giddy mixture of farce , satire and opera buffa . It feels like a comedy , and then a dark drama , and then , no , wait . . . a semicomic documentary , right ? The effect , carried brilliantly by Sordi , is delightful . Brilliant neglected and underappreciated film about the Sicilian mafia . 	Mafioso begins as an amusing farce and skillfully transforms into a portentous social drama .
scott-walker-30-century-man An unhesitating recommendation for fans and neophytes alike . One of the best music documentaries ever made , Scott Walker : 30 Century Man will have you yearning to learn more and fully immerse yourself in its subject . There might be genuine Walker fans who wish to see their forgotten hero given his due , but those who have not acquired that strange taste will find the film hard to take unless it is viewed as a dead-on parody . A pitch-perfect , and hilarious , spoof on pop industry pretension and the biopic format . Scott Walker : 30 Century Man , is the story of and oracular singer , experimental composer , British-based American expatriate and reclusive cult figure . Scott Walker : 30 Century Man glosses over the depression and alcoholism that have bedeviled Walker as well as any relationships he might have had . But that does n't make the film any less interesting . The doc 's biggest revelation may be the extent of his stardom , even as he began to explore bawdy Jacques Brel chansons and psychedelic dada crooning . By actually playing the music and allowing this commentary , Kijak hits upon a kind of astute music criticism , and an argument for music as challenging as this . The proof of the pig is in the pounding : it sounds good . A ghostly , sonorous boom that sometimes feels like the loneliest sound in the world . 	Scott Walker : 30 Century Man is a stylish portrait of an influential artist that will fascinate fans and neophytes alike .
flags of our fathers As the tortured , heavy-drinking Hayes , Beach ( Smoke Signals ) is an emotional open wound , and his performance gives the movie its soul . Symbols can be moving and powerful summations of feelings . But they should never take the place of the truth . A patriotic anti-war movie . Listening old men talk about war is not visually engaging . Broyles and Haggis redundantly hammer home the same point in scene after scene ... while fail [ ing ] in 132 minutes fully to breathe life into their triad of reluctant heroes . If Flags of Our Fathers lacks human dimension , though , it certainly succeeds as an exploration of the nature of heroism . In terms of recent Pacific Theatre flicks , it ai n't much better than John Woo 's instantly forgettable Windtalkers , which is more than a little ironic since both pictures share the same vapid lead ( Adam Beach ) . The film is surprisingly devoid of genuine emotion . Flags of Our Fathers is as painstaking as a documentary but without the satisfaction of a documentary or the impact of a drama . The term `` exposure '' resonates , pertaining not only to the usual `` elements , '' but also to many abuses heaped on the flag-raisers and other veterans generally , and Ira specifically . It 's good , great in spurts , but overall leaves one longing for a story better suited for film . 	Flags of Our Fathers is both a fascinating look at heroism , both earned and manufactured , and a well-filmed salute to the men who fought at the battle of Iwo Jima .
771203480 I do not understand the hatred for Shyamalan . Yes , he has trouble directing actors but Devil is a very intriguing idea executed in a relatively mediocre fashion . Enjoyable , well acted supernatural thriller that does exactly what it says on the tin and is nowhere near as bad as its lack of press screenings would suggest . A clever and dark little tale of horror with an entertaining 'whodunit ' aspect to it . full review at Movies for the Masses A modestly entertaining chiller , one that momentarily halts M Night Shyamalan 's career tailspin . A surprisingly suspenseful and entertaining film , it is Shyamalan 's best in a while . Circling wildly within the film 's main set -- a stalled elevator car -- or hurtling up and down an empty shaft , Mr. Fujimoto 's camera is as giddy as a tween at a Justin Bieber concert . A few creepy ideas and excellent direction make this short , sharp horror flick reasonable entertainment for lovers of the genre . ... a better-than-average thriller that 's ultimately quite a bit more effective than Shyamalan 's last few directorial efforts . Devil is nothing very special or original , but it gets the job done briskly and economically . 	It 's better than many of the other films M. Night Shyamalan has been associated with , but Devil never gets more than a few low-budget thrills out of its fiendishly promising premise .
mission impossible Brainless summer fun A smart , cool movie that not only admits its TV origins but celebrates them . The film is full of cockeyed angles , extreme close-ups , flashbacks and slow-motion , as DePalma tries to create the illusion that somewhere buried in all the busy detail of plot , something is actually at stake in Mission : Impossible . Not so much noir as it is flat Nimble , expertly contrived summer entertainment that does n't insult the intelligence . A superior story . Great start , but the movie keeps fighting its own internal logic . Unfortunately , two scenes and a screwed up script , plus a big plot disappointment , do not a recommendation make . There are just a few groovy special effects and a practically incomprehensible story which we finally ca n't work up enough energy to care about . A non-stop fun run through Europe and the CIA headquarters . 	Full of special effects , Brian DePalma 's update of Mission : Impossible has a lot of sweeping spectacle , but the plot is sometimes convoluted .
1000121-39 steps In Hitchcock 's hands , however , this well-known espionage adventure provided the basis for a new sort of thriller and a new sort of comedy . All the fun of North By Northwest in a little over half the time , The 39 Steps is -- even for the umpteenth viewing -- absolutely unmissable . The `` innocent man '' notion has been copied and recopied for decades , but few have the minerals to stand with this one . Wonderful early sound , quite British Hitchcock thriller Surprisingly fast-paced for a 1935 film , full of twists and turns , and when the unlikely couple becomes handcuffed together and are forced to pretend they are married , it really kicks into high gear . Donat and Carroll have chemistry to burn . Laced with comic romantic touches . As dull as anything Hitchcock has done , save the exhilerating final 10 minutes . The 39 Steps is sexy , exciting , unexpectedly moving ( thanks to Peggy Ashcroft 's portrayal of a lonely woman married to a brutish farmer ) , and wholly unpredictable , with an ending that nicely loops back to the start . Far more substance than other thrillers . With its great turns by Donat , Carroll ( the original Hitchcock blonde ) and all the cast , and immaculate direction of a cracking script , this is timelessly enjoyable . A true classic . 	Packed with twists and turns , this essential early Alfred Hitchcock feature hints at the dazzling heights he 'd reach later in his career .
beaufort Pro-war audiences on both sides will find Joseph Cedar 's vision irresponsible . I think Beaufort captures a higher irresponsibility . The film is slow and rather too long ( and a bit preachy ) , but always intense , and its intentions are certainly clear . Powerful portrait of an officer and his soldiers facing up to what it means to serve in an army of a fallible , democratic country that spins an explosive pyrrhic victory Clearly something has gone MIA in moving from the small pictures into a cohesive big one . Although the film is mindful of Milestone and Irvin 's epics of squandered lives , its focus is tighter and less battle-charged , more Samuel Beckett than Oliver Stone . War movies are about heroism . Good war movies cast existential questions around the circumstances of that heroism . Beaufort is a great war movie . Director and co-writer Joseph Cedar loses all goodwill accumulated by his competent , plausibly close-knit cast with heavy-handed use of clichs . Beaufort is reflective , quietly powerful , and thought provoking - a sobering postscript to the movie is that one month after filming finished , the 33 day `` Second Lebanon War '' broke out . In the end [ it ] is n't about victory or defeat ... It 's about surviving another day , doing one 's job , and getting back to family . Beaufort may be , strictly speaking , a war movie , but for long stretches it feels more like science fiction . 	Beaufort is a deeply observant and meditative war film , masterfully rendered by director Joseph Cedar .
rec 2 Offers a bevy of first-person scares and moments rife with tension . Through clever manipulation and a surprisingly well-thought-through story , manages to transcend its influences enough to still seem fresh . [ REC ] 2 smartly picks up right where the first one left off , and takes little time to reestablish momentum . Balaguer and Plaza really know what they 're doing . Despite a few neat surprises , [ Rec ] 2 mainly expands on familiar images and ideas . This is how you make a sequel . They compensate for the inevitable decline in shock potential by tripling the overall velocity . Hot damn , does this thing ever move . [ Rec ] 2 is a solid mix of tension and good old-fashioned gore and action , helped immensely by a first-person-shooter stylistic approach and inventive script . Take that , Hollywood ! Frantic from the get-go , this new crop of zombie bait barrels through shadowy hallways and fends off waxen , emaciated attackers with such hysterical speed it 's impossible to know -- or care -- whose face has just been chomped . Quibbles aside , [ Rec ] 2 's biggest flaw is that it 's not [ Rec ] . 	It lacks the surprising jolt of the first installment , but [ REC ] 2 almost maintains the original 's chilling momentum -- and proves not all horror sequels were made equal .
licence to kill The Bond women are pallid mannequins , and so is the misused Dalton -- a moving target in a Savile Row suit . For every plausible reason , he looks as bored in his second Bond film as Sean Connery did in his sixth . A cameo by Wayne Newton pushes the film into full-on kitsch , and many feared the series was dead after Licence 's poor showing . Where are the signature chase scenes , the sexual humor and the romantic trysts that we come to Bond films for in the first place ? As unlikely as it seems , Mr. Dalton actually appears to be growing in the Bond role , which is potentially stifling because its own popularity has so rigidly defined it . Average , Pretty Average . Shaken , Stirred ? Nah ... just plain ho-hum . Licence to Kill may be taut and gripping , but it 's not traditional Bond , and that , as much as any other reason , may explain the public 's rejection of this reasonably well-constructed picture . Glen is clearly out of ideas , only managing to present a level of violence so out of character for the series , it surely contributed to the modest ( by Bond standards ) box office returns . It 's a strained , sexless , and overcooked film ... Dalton 's game , but the film is inert , perhaps unprepared to work with the new Irish Kiss direction of the series . It 's a watchable adventure boosted by impressive action sequences and a fiery climax with a bone-crunching punch-up . Pity Dalton did n't have another crack at proving his secret-agent credentials . Licence to Kill ranks as one of the best of the 16 Bond films , thanks to Dalton 's athletic , tough and deadly new 007 . 	License to Kill is a sharp action picture -- it 's darker than many of the other entries , with Timothy Dalton playing Bond with intensity -- but it still has some solid chases and fight scenes .
the salt of the earth Despite lacking any nods towards Salgado 's artistic influences , The Salt of the Earth leaves you both traumatised and tantalised ; his work can be difficult to take in at times , but there is no doubt you 're left wanting more . Whether capturing human anguish or natural wonders , Salgado has an eye for the transcendent . The Salt of the Earth lets us look for a long time and consider Sebastio Selgado 's photography in the same way Selgado might The combination of talents and temperaments of two great artists makes for a work of such beauty and depth that is , indeed , breathtaking . `` The Salt of the Earth '' presents not just a passing of time through one man 's remarkable life but a change of perspective . The Salt of the Earth , has the power to draw you into its world , transfix , and perhaps eventually transform you . Glorious to look at -- at least when it sticks to black and white -- and keenly perceptive , this is n't your standard documentary for most of its length . The film is at times too much in awe of its subject , failing to seriously address oft-expressed criticism that Salgado is a voyeur of global pain . But he 's willing to get his hands dirty for real change . The Salt of the Earth is too stagnant on its own terms ... Direct-to-camera testimonials are the movie 's troubled heart , and raise the inescapable question of what happens to a soul when it gets to the point where it 's simply seen too much . 	While the work it honors may pose thorny ethical questions that Salt of the Earth neglects to answer , it remains a shattering , thought-provoking testament to Sebastio Salgado 's career .
my kid could paint that As the story shifts from fanaticism to skepticism , Bar-Lev loses sight of his original line of inquiry on the nature of modern art when he does n't need to . New York Times senior art critic Michael Kimmelman offers sharp insights when he mentions how Marla 's painting reflects not just 'innocence ' and what our psyches project into them , but also 'the cynicism of the art world . ' The open-endedness of the film makes for a rather unsatisfying non-conclusion to the story ... but like the best documentaries , it leaves you asking questions without trying to answer them for you . Bar-Lev also explores the freakish popular appeal of child prodigies [ and ] the family dynamics that come into play when a child 's celebrity and earning capacity overshadows the adults . ' More than a standard child prodigy profile , My Kid Could Paint That turns into a priceless examination of modern art , celebrity and what it means to be a kid . As cunning as a double-sided Kandinsky but ultimately as shallow as a few layers of oil . Like all good art , this raises difficult questions . ... raises all kinds of questions and answers few , but I doubt any viewer could walk away without opinion . It 's a well-structured , thought-provoking , even suspenseful piece of work . Raises compelling questions about artistic 'authenticity , ' the 'meaning ' of modern art , the voracious and double-edged demands of the news media , the exploitation of children and the nature of faith itself . What begins as a sweet documentary about yet another art prodigy becomes an absorbing look at the world of art scandals , trial by media and the parental role in the frenzied creation and perpetuation of a phenomenon . 	Director Amir Bar-Lev grapples with exposing the authenticity of four-year-old Marla 's paintings at the sake of burdening her publicly shamed family to transfixing results .
keep the river on your right a modern cannibal tale ... takes you to where Tobias Schneebaum has been and in an engrossing manner lets you see why he went there . It 's a frustrating film , asking more questions than it answers ... it was very long and very unsatisfying . The Shapiros ... ultimately reveal a frail but mentally robust old man whose gnawing hunger for knowledge led him to shun a safe , comfortable career in art for a series of radically transformative experiences at the world 's edges . Once the shock factor of [ Tobias ] having once eaten another human is over , the movie does n't have much more to offer . Meanders , dawdles , doubles back on itself but finally gets us somewhere fascinating and worthwhile . The Shapiros wisely focus on the mystery of this man . Intriguing if somewhat leisurely documentary on anthropologist/artist Tobias Schneebaum . An engaging and colorful but somewhat overbalanced documentary . The [ directors ) ... betray him , condescendingly and manipulatively making it all turn on one relatively unimportant bite of flesh . May be a film of missed opportunities and unanswered questions , but it has an unsinkable man at its center who is never less than transfixing . 	Keep the River on Your Right places the spotlight on a fascinating individual , Tobias Schneebaum .
in her shoes One has to applaud the insightfulness of director Curtis Hanson and his decision to use Garbage 's `` Stupid Girl '' to open his latest disappointment . `` In Her Shoes '' is an unbalanced movie that teeters between saccharine fluff and preachy self-help sentiment . They feel like real people . They show their flaws and wallow in their misery , but they have a strength that gets them through troubling times and they let you laugh with them . Call it a 'chick flick ' if you must , but it is the best 'chick flick ' you will see this year . In Her Shoes treats love like a pretty accessory to be stored in a plastic box and shoved in the back of a closet when it proves impractical . For the guys , this movie may be just as painful as going shoe shopping with a lady friend . Yet , it 's refreshing to see Shirley MacLaine still has a bit of Irma la Douce left in her . A smart and surprisingly rewarding gem with resonating themes and ideas , In Her Shoes is episodic mainstream filmmaking done right . No great claims should be made for In Her Shoes . But there is something to be said for froth when it 's expertly whipped . What phony hooey this is . Three solid performances and fine direction from Curtis Hanson 	Honesty and solid performances make In Her Shoes a solid fit for all audiences .
transporter 3 Transporter 3 delivers precisely the same thrills as the first two installments . Take that as a warning - or an invitation . With a surfeit of plot , Transporter 3 stills ends up defying logic and most of the laws of physics by the time its explosive climax rolls around . You know a series is in trouble when it begins mocking its own premise . Frank 's obsessive rules about who , what and how he transports stuff are ruthlessly violated . While it will no doubt end up being a let down even for the die hardest of fans , the film does contain a couple of interesting thrills here and there . A stiflingly dull and useless caper that 's all the more aggravating when you recall how giddy the original film was . It 's kinda fast , it looks cheap , it 's definitely out of control . For those who believe that more is better , Transporter 3 is the best of the unapologetically ridiculous series . And if you 're addicted to action , it will put you in adrenaline-freak heaven . An action franchise in motion tends to stay in motion , long after logic or box office should bring it to a screeching halt . This one is for fans only . 	This middling installment in the Transporter franchise is a few steps down from its predecessors , featuring generic stunts and a lack of energy .
talk to me As good as Cheadle and Elijofor are , the person I enjoyed most was Taraji P. Henson whose flamboyant performance dominates every scene in which she appears . Watching it becomes an exercise in frustration when a potentially great movie winds up buried inside a just OK one . A traditionally handsome biopic bursting with 1960s period detail and firecracker performances , Talk To Me tackles one of the most volatile periods in American history , but tragically finds nothing interesting to say about it . Although the director succumbs to the genre ( TM ) s temptation to wrap up a messy life with a neat , platitudinous resolution , she lets her cast give Greene and his era its due . Don Cheadle , along with Taraji P. Henson , act up a storm in this biopic about Petey Greene , a 1960s-era deejay who shook up the airwaves with his streetwise rant . Their performances deserve a better film . The movie 's occasional narrative shortcomings are offset by the performances , which are uniformly fine . In its wrenching shift from farce to tragedy , and its evocation of the bridge offered by friendship , Talk to Me tells it , and keeps on tellin ' it , much as 'Petey ' Greene would have . Talk to Me is an incisive portrait of a provocative figure . It comes very close to caricature , but remains human and lively . ... half terrific movie and half run-of-the-mill biopic Thanks to its two leads , the film remains vivid , honest and deeply felt . 	A riveting look at the life of legendary DJ `` Petey '' Greene , Talk to Me goes beyond the typical biopic with explosive performances from Don Cheadle and Chiwetal Ejiofor .
in the line of fire ... Eastwood in the true Eastwood mode -- eyes narrowed , brow furrowed , fists clenched , gun in hand . Though the movie is engrossing , it lacks something : fire , weirdness , originality . Between them , director Petersen and screenwriter Jeff Maguire do a memorable job developing their characters in this story of personal and professional redemption . A wonderful cat-and-mouse thriller matching Eastwood against Malkovich 's serpentine would-be assassin . Solid and well-crafted ; neither Eastwood nor Petersen has been quite as good since . For the most part , this is an exciting , engaging thriller , well-directed by Wolfgang Petersen . Clint Eastwood has always been an old man . Even in the '60s , as the gunslinger in Sergio Leone westerns , Eastwood had the squinty eyes , sour mouth and weary walk of a soldier who had been in too many wars . Malkovich is at top of his game . Clint is Clint , which is all that matters . Perhaps Eastwood 's best , most complex performance to date . It 's Dirty Harry goes to Washington 	A straightforward thriller of the highest order , In the Line of Fire benefits from Wolfgang Peterson 's taut direction and charismatic performances from Clint Eastwood and John Malkovich .
who killed the electric car An entertaining if slightly skewed documentary about the short life and early death of General Motors ' EV1 . This year 's Enron : The Smartest Guys in the Room -- an investigatory expos on callous , myopic corporate greed . Certainly makes the case that if the electric cars were available today in mass quantities at competitive prices , they would sell like Girls Gone Wild videos . A wondrous tale with an infuriating ending ( at least so far ) . This doc looks at the possible suspects in the death of the promising electric vehicle : consumers , oil companies , car manufacturers , gov . and even the Hydrogen Fuel Cell car . A little preachy and a little dry , the film nevertheless manages to prick your interest and your conscience -- and to raise your ire toward the folks who created this wondrous technology and then obliterated it . Insightful , informative and , as far as I can tell , scrupulously fair . Paine amasses evidence -- including dissenting voices -- that 's consistently illuminating . Chris Paine 's documentary makes an unapologetic case for the car and an unofficial indictment of the forces allied against it . No amount of last-reel optimism will cool the anger of progressive-minded auds . 	A searing indictment of big business and greed , Who Killed The Electric Car ? is a well-tuned doc that simultaneously entertains and enrages .
the book of life 2014 The Book of Life is a Hispanic rococo feast and possibly even a positive cultural gateway for younger kids . It 's great to look at , less to listen to . The picture neither lifted my spirit nor made me feel the heightened emotions it was so obviously striving for . Were it not for the purposes of this review , `` The Book of Life '' would already be completely forgotten . If The Nightmare Before Christmas is the go-to animated feature for Halloween and/or Christmas , then The Book of Life has a lock on Da De Los Muertos . Superbly designed and animated , but it 's also a cluttered endeavor , spending too much time explaining what 's going on instead of experiencing the rich multiverse co-writer/director Gutierrez is laboring to create . `` The Book of Life '' is a flawed but intriguing new chapter in animation . Death feels like the best birthday party ever in this Guillermo del Toro production ... The story feels something like propping a Christian cross on a pagan altar : tensions inevitably arise . The film 's themes are n't original , but its presentation is . Not dissimilar in merrily ghoulish spirit to 'The Nightmare Before Christmas ' , it 's hugely entertaining . So colorful and unconventionally dazzling it almost reinvents the art form 	The Book of Life 's gorgeous animation is a treat , but it 's a pity that its story lacks the same level of craft and detail that its thrilling visuals provide .
1006717-escape from new york The pic functions well as both a prison escape drama and as an escapist film . It 's far from a great film , but is entertaining and pleasantly cynical despite being so bleak . Cult classic that earns its status . I remember it being a lot better than it actually is . So if you have fond memories of a long-ago viewing of EFNY , I 'd suggest not ruining them by revisiting the film again . John Carpenter imaginatively [ sketches his ] high concept premise in this cult classic . Overall the effects and sets are quite realistic and director Carpenter keeps the whole stew boiling to make a rather enjoyable dinner . Vicious scenes are often juxtaposed with comic sequences in a tap dance of contrasting tones that is both bizarre and grandly entertaining . Has a surprisingly measured pace , its set pieces choreographed with a deliberateness at odds with the frantic nature of Snake 's quest . I love this movie , yet I 'm not sure if I respect it . You ca n't think too much about any of the details of the story because it is , after all , a comic-book adventure . A superb action adventure , movie that makes us nostalgic towards the times when the future looked bleak . 	Featuring an atmospherically grimy futuristic metropolis , Escape from New York is a strange , entertaining jumble of thrilling action and oddball weirdness .
seraphine Engrossing , well-shot bio-pic ... which won seven Cesars , including Best Picture , from the French Academy in 2008 , has a gorgeous antique look and a surfeit of empathy . A lovely , lingering film . Depends on your levels of Christmas spirit . Nativity either glorifies the charming amateurishness of the British school play or celebrates the slapdash incompetence of the British film industry . Moreau 's stellar performance and the astral intensity of the paintings keep taking us where this story belongs , up into the skies . It 's also a comforting story that allows us to elevate the notion of purity above success . Yolande Moreau 's Seraphine , all doughy and unreadable at first , lets you see how the passion that enriches her work might also upend her life . Made with a remarkable attention to detail that makes the characters and period spring vividly to life As far as biopics of painters go , Sraphine is one of the very best It has a lyricism , passion and beauty unmatched in cinema this year . A classy drama and a sympathetic portrait of two outsiders and the vibrant , unsettling work that binds them . Seraphine arrives from France as the year 's most honored film , winner of seven Cesars from the French Academy , including best film and best actress . 	Seraphine is a well-crafted French film that effectively captures one woman 's experience with art , religion , and mental illness , and features a brilliant performance from Yolande Moreau .
waiting for guffman It keeps you laughing from beginning to end . The nonstop amusing mockumentary Waiting for Guffman does to small-town acting troupes what This Is Spinal Tap did to heavy-metal bands . Trabalhando em um subgnero que praticamente ajudou a crier ( o do pseudocumentrio ) , Guest cria mais um filme que diverte por compreender to bem seu tema e seus personagens . Attention is paid not simply to funny characters and punch lines , but to small nudges at human nature . Waiting for Guffman is worth a little chuckle , but that 's about it . One of the funniest movies ever made , 'Waiting for Guffman ' spoofs everything from documentaries and talent shows to local politics and alien abductions . A sly and gleeful comedy showcase that pokes clever fun at the American musical , amateur theatricals and anything else that 's not nailed down . This is a very funny film with a daring difference : it lets us laugh at the characters without malice . The comedy has the slow burn of a richly nuanced and non-judgmental character study . A madcap gem . 	This riotously deadpan mockumentary about aspiring community theater performers never stoops to ridicule oft-ridiculous characters .
colombiana An action-packed distraction for popcorn munchers who found the dialogue and plot points in Transformers : Dark Of The Moon too subtle . Often improbable , sometimes ludicrous , but frequently exciting . Wrapped in B-movie trappings from its clichd script and implausible scenarios to less than thrilling action , the best thing Colombiana has going for it is the lovely Ms. Saldana , who deserves much better than this . Megaton blows things up , demolishes a fruit market , and throws in some parkour foot-chases as if he 's completing a checklist . Colombiana wants to be Bourne with boobs , but its connect-the-dots narrative and silted script means it ca n't quite reach those bone-crunching heights . A generic time killer that does n't leave any kind of lasting impression . There are guilty pleasures to be had in this frenzied B starring Zoe Saldana , who gives an acrobatic performance that makes the overcooked material watchable . You keep wanting `` Colombiana '' to go all the way in one direction , or all the way in the other . Instead , it just sits there , content to give Saldana a lollypop . click for full review at Movies for the Masses Colombiana has one true asset -- the seminude sight of its star , Zoe Saldana -- and milks it for everything it 's worth . 	Zoe Saldana has the chops but she 's taken out by erratic and sloppy filmmaking .
wolf creek An austere descent into inexplicable , unbridled mayhem . Unlike so many of its slick counterparts , Wolf Creek is genuinely unnerving and sometimes upsetting . A shade better than a lot of the current crop of Hollywood horror movies ( Saw II ) and remakes and redos of Japanese terror films . [ It 's ] scary cinema pushed to the brink of punishment . But there 's no question that what it sets out to do , it does alarmingly well . Disappointingly formulaic . The movie descends into a pool of bloody entrails , with lurid and sadistic killings that are more likely to nauseate than entertain . Mr. McLean uses all sorts of storytelling tricks to keep you guessing while the quartet of unknown actors deliver deeply affecting performances . Once you wade through a deathly long setup , it delivers the cinematic equivalent of watching a public execution , and then it 's over . In this era of horror films soullessly carted out of Hollywood , Wolf Creek immediately stands apart from the pack . At least as unnerving as it is gratuitously sadistic , skin deep , and full of plot holes the size of Ayers Rock . 	Though Wolf Creek is effectively horrific , it is still tasteless exploitation .
1174399-in the shadow of the moon A beautiful , exhilarating , and sometimes deeply moving documentary about those long-ago Apollo missions of the late 1960s and early 1970s . Poignant but never sappy , Moon is also very timely , documenting universal achievements at a time when America is n't exactly seen as a team player . Respectful , enthusiastic and occasionally rather touching as the men , now in their seventies , recall how it felt up there . Yet the really important question never gets asked : what was it all for ? It 's so simple , so obvious -- and a revelation . Seeing 'In the Shadow of the Moon ' brought back all of the excitement I remember experiencing in 1969 when Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin took those first steps on the moon . What a fabulous achievement that was -- -- for them and for all of us ! If you can appreciate the incredible bravery and intelligence exhibited by these talented men , and if you want to see some glorious shots of our planet from 240,000 miles away , this is your ticket . might also be called In the Shadow of Neil Armstrong because the absence of his towering presence in the film is a big , gaping hole in the narrative The real selling point is an astonishing wealth of footage from the NASA warehouses . In the Shadow of the Moon stirringly relives the moment and points the way toward a future when the feeling could again be achieved . Successfully recaptures the feeling of what made the Apollo missions so special . 	Director David Sington poetically interwove 20th Century 's cosmonautic history with its effect on the public 's view of their country , their heroes and their future .
porn star the legend of ron jeremy What hath Boogie Nights wrought ? Porn Star is destined someday to double-bill with Sex : The Annabel Chong Story . [ Jeremy 's ] articulate , funny and -- in a weird way -- almost endearing , like a libidinous Sancho Panza . A fascinating if finally familiar portrait . A sympathetic look at a regular guy who reached the peak of his profession . [ Y ] ou come away with the impression that it actually does make his father proud . If Ron Jeremy , the subject of Scott J. Gill 's Porn Star : The Legend of Ron Jeremy , did not exist , somebody on Saturday Night Live would probably have invented him . Might not meet the needs of the fans who 've made Jeremy a big shot in his field , but for the first time it might help him find a more mainstream audience . There are many profound things to regret on this freighted Earth , and who am I to suggest that Jeremy 's failed quest is n't one of them -- or that having to watch this movie is n't another . As Porn Star makes clear , for all the sex and parties , very little in Ron Jeremy 's life is either sexy or fun . 	Porn Star is both an entertaining and poignant documentary on the life of Ron Jeremy .
country bears Unlike Kermit & Co. , the Country Bears are completely devoid of charm . The disarming cornball atmosphere has a way of infecting the entire crowd as the film rolls on . The movie is not as terrible as the synergistic impulse that created it . A dumb story about a bear adopted by humans . ' ... both hokey and super-cool , and definitely not in a hurry , so sit back , relax and have a few laughs while the little ones get a fuzzy treat . ' Disney 's first attempt to make a Disney World attraction into a film ( the haunted mansion and Pirates of the Caribbean are soon to follow ) is n't great , but it 's surprisingly unwretched . There is n't enough irony or sly humor to keep adults interested , and there is n't enough adventure in the plot to keep children over the age of 4 from squirming in their seats . A mixture of old-time kitsch and bewildering MTV-influenced digressions . The message becomes the savior for `` The Country Bears , '' an equal parts silly and sweet tale that wears its great big ol ' heart on its grizzly-sized sleeve . Do n't tell anybody , but I 'm going to buy the soundtrack to The Country Bears . 	Despite all the celebrities on hand , this spin-off from a theme park attraction still feels tired and hokey .
flash point Those with a taste for bone-crushing martial arts executed with real skill and flair are not likely to find anything better on American screens for some time . There 's nothing that I dislike about FLASH POINT , but I do wish it could be even more than it is Insensible . Donnie Yen is famous for combining martial arts traditions into his own unique fighting style and Collin Chou , who studied with Sammo Hung , is up to the task of holding his own . Not even a choice ass-whupping can make up for the plodding familiarity that precedes it . Catch this one in theatres while you have the chance . The breathless , breakneck action of Flash Point can only truly be appreciated 40 feet high . Nothing more than a dumb action picture with delusions of Johnnie To-dom . Flash Point plays like the last hurrah of a criminal underclass facing the inevitable shrinking of its bottom line . Flash Point comes loaded with cliches and immediately starts blasting them in every direction . a plot of nail-biting tension 	Flash Point features some nice mindless martial-arts action , but too much of the already thin story treads familiar ground .
rubber Rubber wo n't be everyone 's cup of tea , but as curios go , it 's among the more watchable movies about killer tyres you 're likely to see this year . The greatest meta movie about a killer tire ever made . It 's grand , mindless fun that makes a thoughtful point . A strikingly clever parody of bloody road thrillers of the nineteen-seventies ... This is a movie about how watching movies is stupid . `` Rubber '' has anthropomorphic , head-scratching fun with its gory B-movie trappings , silly music cues , self-referential comedy and deliberately off-kilter acting . Surprisingly watchable for a one-joke time-waster . Whether you choose to perceive it as a goof , a satire , or a little of both , Rubber is undeniably audacious . The killer tire concept is great and the bizarre humor works very well , making this a wholly enjoyable film . The result is something akin to Luis Bunuel or Samuel Beckett making a 70s exploitation film . 	A clever premise gets plenty of comic blood and violence , but its hampered by some questionable storytelling techniques from director Quentin Dupieux .
eternal sunshine of the spotless mind Carrey gracefully paints the neuroses of a man who has no security or intimacy beyond the close grip of his gloomy knit hat . Most Hollywood films tell us we have everything we need within ourselves . [ This movie ] indicates that we need each other , even ... when togetherness disrupts happiness . It 's a beautiful , sad , profound film and , although parts of it may remind you of other works of art ... it is like nothing you 've ever seen . Romance was never this stark or twisted . [ T ] here 's something warmly , recognizably , ubiquitously human in Sunshine , cuz do n't we all fall in love and sometimes love it and hate it at the same time ? A surprisingly bittersweet love story at heart , Eternal Sunshine values the sum of experience , which in this case means a thorns-and-all openness to romantic possibilities . A delightful little wormhole that takes us on a journey to another dimension of consciousness . An unusual one but a great one , it will have you asking questions about the true nature of love for some time afterwards . At last Kaufman allows his characters to lift their heads out of the fog of narcissism and solipsism and dare to hope , to engage one another . You wo n't soon forget this walk down memory lane . Actually , make that a RUN down memory lane . 	Propelled by Charlie Kaufman 's smart , imaginative script and Michel Gondry 's equally daring directorial touch , Eternal Sunshine is a twisty yet heartfelt look at relationships and heartache .
dracula 2000 To my surprise Dracula 2000 , was n't all that bad and I actually found myself largely enjoying it . A thudding , suspense-free montage of unshocking shock effects and more severed heads than toppled during the French Revolution . Director Patrick Lussier has a keen eye for color and knows how to compose a great-looking shot ; unfortunately , Lussier also co-wrote and edited the film , effectively undermining his talent . This is occasionally entertaining stuff , but deeply silly . The slapdash pic appears to be the work of folks who made things up as they went along . While the result certainly does n't suck , it does lack any real bite . Long stretches of nothingness and plot where there should be flesh-ripping violence and gore . We 're talking 5,940 seconds better spent doing anything else under the sun , including but not limited to pulling out one 's toenails one by one . Not only is D2K wretchedly written ... and laughably acted , but its pacing is lugubrious . A bloody mess as a movie , one with acting so lame it 's likely to prompt shrieks , not of horror but of derisive laughter . 	This retelling trys to offer a different spin on the origin of Dracula . Unfortunately , there 's nothing here audiences have n't seen before .
fried green tomatoes The movie left me wishing its sterling cast -- including a radiant Jessica Tandy -- had been better served . An enjoyable if sentimental chic flick that sanitizes Flagg 's novel in two major respects , glossing over the lesbian relationship between Mary Louise Parker and Mary Stuart Masterson and underplaying the blatant racism in the trail of a black man . When a group of actors this gifted and lively tries so good-naturedly to deliver such an obvious message , the audience is left in the position of trying to stop a tidal wave . You may hate yourself for responding , but you 're smothered before you know it . Stirring , sizzling serving of female empowerment . Directed and co-written by first-timer Jon Avnet , the episodic production manages to capture the fried-tomato flavor of the deep South without becoming too pushy or patronizing about it . It 's a nice , pleasant celebration of friendship , but without much meat to chew on . Bates and Tandy shine in what is essentially an extended flashback with the occasional present day bookends . More dizzying than the jumps between past and present is the speed with which consciousness-raised Evelyn swaps caricatures , evolving from Frump to Fighter . Tandy is at her sparkling best as the endearing old story-teller . Bates is also terrif in a funny and sympathetic turn . Director Jon Avnet , in his feature film debut , gets first-rate work from the featured performers . Mary Stuart Masterson , as Idgie , keeps us guessing . One of Hollywood 's best young actresses , she fairly sets off sparks as the tomboy next door , a distaff Huck Finn . 	Fried Green Tomatoes ' tearjerking drama is undeniably manipulative , but in the hands of a skilled cast that includes Jessica Tandy and Kathy Bates , it 's also powerfully effective .
beasts of the southern wild Prepare to be moved and inspired by this unique masterpiece . Beasts teeters on the edge of embracing the clichs of `` lyrical poverty '' movies , but is anchored in complex reality by the performance of non-actress Quvenzhan Wallis . This is a film that manages that rare bridge between end-of-days epic and intimate humanist storytelling - fantastical but still just rooted enough to be depressingly plausible . An extraordinary movie about a fearless six-year-old African-American girl who tutors us in the art of survival ; one of the best movies of 2012 . There 's poetry , tough love and , above all , a fierce stoicism on the bayou in Benh Zeitlin 's strikingly beautiful and haunting debut . A wonderful debut feature directed by Benh Zeitlin . Here is a unique place , filled with characters whose infinite sadness is matched only by their resolve to endure by any means necessary . The film might be a bit too harsh for small children . That 's a shame , since , like Whale Rider , it offers some valuable life lessons for kids , ones far more heady than the usual `` Be yourself '' mantra repeated ad nauseam in countless animated features . Really the lifestyle of these people takes center stage . It 's hard not to appreciate their joie de vivre , or the believable performances these non-actors give . They 're both `` beasts '' ! When can we watch it again ? 	Beasts of the Southern Wild is a fantastical , emotionally powerful journey and a strong case of filmmaking that values imagination over money .
1158528-goal But other than a flicker of something interesting in the performance of Alessandro Nivola as a hard-partying star player there is always something distant and antiseptic about it all . Goal ! The Dream Begins follows a young Mexican soccer whiz from Los Angeles to England and a tryout with Newcastle United . This young footballer had more people pushing for him and more hand-given opportunities for stardom than Ben Affleck . Disney goes to the sports-movie-formula well once too often with Goal ! The Dream Begins , which is essentially The Rookie or The Greatest Game Ever Played on a soccer pitch . There 's plenty of fat to cut from Goal ! , which would have been a stronger story at a lean , mean 90 minutes . ... engaging and fun to watch , thanks mainly to Kuno Becker in the title role ( he 's such a nice kid , we ca n't help but root for him ) . Mandatory viewing for anyone who 's able to spell Zinedine Zidane on the first try , and an essentially painless two hours for anyone else who gets dragged along . A cliche-a-minute howler . The story of a single-minded young man whose dream of making it on the international stage of soccer comes true thanks to the enthusiasm of others . In the end , I ca n't think of a movie that matters less than Just My Luck . It 's just negligible . 	Impressive sports action sequences are the highlight , as the run-of the-mill story invokes every known sports movie cliche .
yu gi oh the movie Feels like a 91-minute infomercial selling the popular collectible-card game . A 90-minute advert in search of a storyline . From the endless product placement to its attempt to reel viewers in with free trading cards at the door , it all adds up to a 90-minute commercial . Yu-Gi-Oh ! The Movie keeps the kid-friendly spirit of the show while raising the stakes enough to justify a serviceable big-screen treatment . Kids will eat Yu-Gi-Oh ! The Movie up . The rest of us will have to wait for the translation . With the possible exception of ESPN-televised poker , watching somebody else play a card game is incredibly boring . Although the movie is n't bad , would n't kids probably have a better time playing Yu-Gi-Oh themselves than watching others play it , cartoonically ? The only thing missing is a 1-800 number flashing on the bottom . More infomercial than movie . For series fans only . I suspect even children will be sophisticated enough to understand that a film should feel more alive than a trading card . 	Do n't watch the TV show or play the card game ? Then this movie is not for you .
volver Richly entertaining fantasy from a cinematic master . One excellent performance does not a captivating drama make ; this is just a colorful , great-looking but weepy telenovela that will require three cups of coffee to endure . In this hand-stitched , gentle giant of a film , return is recovery -- by its very nature -- and all ghosts are friendly if you 'd only let them in . ... The film , against my wishes , left me unmoved . It 's up to charm to twinkle our attention away from the loose threads and daytime TV plotting . When the film does work itself up to a boil , it 's worth the wait . This is a movie about mothers and children that dispatches with the usual goopy sentiment . Volver reassures us that you can go home again -- if only in the movies . A deeply entertaining experience that engages our hearts as well as our funny bones . A women 's film -- about women , fueled by the instincts of women -- that does n't resort to obvious melodrama or push-button emotions . the mad spark which is Almodvar 's alone is only improving with each passing film 	Volver catches director Pedro Almodovar and star Penelope Cruz at the peak of their respective powers , in service of a layered , thought-provoking film . This magical tragicomic melodrama may be Almodovar 's most restrained work to date , but it still features his trademarks : a strong attention to color and detail , a celebration of the trials and tribulations of women , and , of course , the inestimable Carmen Maura . The lovely Penelope Cruz has n't shone more brightly as she does here .
dogtown and zboys A thrilling experience , and one that can be thoroughly enjoyed even if you 're unable to discern a 'kickflip ' from a 'frontside air . ' ... this is a great document , and gives due credit to those who truly invented vertical skateboarding which is the predecessor of all the 'vertical ' sports . God bless the Z-boys , every one . Infectiously exuberant . Few sports films catch their time , place and sport so well . There is something I find deeply disturbing about a documentary made about one 's own life that never acknowledges its first person status . A high-flying kick for anyone who enjoys a good road rash and wind rushing through the hair . Blatant promotion aside , the chronicles of Dogtown make for fascinating insider cultural history . A fine , interesting documentary . Peralta captures , in luminous interviews and amazingly evocative film from three decades ago , the essence of the Dogtown experience . Even if you could n't care less about skateboarding , Dogtown and Z-boys serves up an intriguing slice of American culture . 	Dogtown and Z-Boys is a colorful , exhilarating look at the skateboarding subculture .
that thing you do Sweet nothing , then , but what would you expect of a rock movie devoted to the drummer ? ... a movie that , like many a pop tune , has a cute idea but a simpleminded lyric . In short , this is a lightweight but utterly loveable affair which proves Hanks is as assured behind the camera as in front of it . ... a larky but observant comedy . A sweet , likeable tale of the quick rise to fame and then demise of a small town band . Set in 1964 , Hanks ' film offers a sanitized , Gump-ish look at a mythical period when boys were boys and girls were girls , with no references to the sex-drug subculture Though Hanks keeps the satirical and critical aspects of this look at show biz fairly light , there 's a lot of conviction and savvy behind the steadiness of his gaze . Tom Hanks directorial effort is a decent film overall , but nothing that would ever inspire to re-visit again and again with fondness . ... the film has a contagiously exuberant atmosphere , and you 'll most likely leave the theater happily humming the title tune . The strange thing is that even though Hanks bungles the big moments , he does so many things right with the small moments that it is easy to walk away with a smile . Light and peppy , this filmmaking debut by Tom Hanks is as harmless as a puppy dog waiting to be petted . 	A light , sweet , and thoroughly entertaining debut for director Tom Hanks , That Thing You Do ! makes up in charm what it lacks in complexity .
bicentennial man There are some impressive special effects , but the picture is more a charming character study than a futuristic adventure . The film is cute , saccarhine , overlong , at times overbearing ... but not completely unpleasant . Virtually every emotion , motivation , idea , character and plot point in the movie is flat and perfunctory -- except for those that carry the invisible subtitle , 'Cry , dammit ! ' Feels like 200 years of dullness . It 's a step in the right direction for both its star and maker . The worst kind of movie -- one with no direction , no identity , and above all no heart . By relegating the story to a disappointing level of superficiality and never attempting to venture more than skin-deep into some intriguing themes , Bicentennial Man comes across like recycled , diluted Star Trek . Canned emotions . A good time . A shiny houehold robot becomes an exemplar of the spiritual practice of kindness in this film that must be taken to heart . 	Bicentennial Man is ruined by a bad script and ends up being dull and mawkish .
bronson Strap yourself in for a jaw-dropping performance from Tom Hardy as he completely inhabits the role of Britain 's most notorious prisoner in this highly stylised piece of mischievous cinematic vaudeville . While I ca n't say Bronson is - to lean on a running gag of the movie 's - `` my cuppa tea , '' I ca n't say it is n't art either . A kind of second cousin to Paolo Sorrentino 's `` Il Divo '' ( 2008 ) , `` Bronson '' shares that film 's mechanical sense of ambivalent regard for its subject ' ... not a great film but garners a strong performance from its star [ Tom Hardy ] . Tom Hardy gives a disgustingly excellent performance . For such a potentially exciting subject matter , Bronson hits way too many lulls . Do n't let Tom Hardy turn Bronson into a caricature of what we expect mad people to be like . Refn tells his story in a gripping , genre-breaking way , introducing broad theatricality and surreal animation . In some scenes , Peterson delivers monologues in a clown 's whiteface ; in others , we 're in an asylum as mad as its patients . An overstylized mess , with a brave but pointless performance from Tom Hardy as a lifelong prisoner who just wants to destroy everything around him , most of all himself . `` Nuffin ' wonky about my upbringing , '' Bronson says , early on . Nothing wonky about Hardy 's performance , either . 	Undeniably gripping , Bronson forces the viewer to make some hard decisions about where the line between art and exploitation lies .
around the world in 80 days The colors , costumes , and sets showed that Disney has n't lost all of its magic yet . The movie equivalent of a mustache scrawled on the Mona Lisa . ... conviendra peut-tre aux trs jeunes enfants alors que les parents voudront certainement passer leur tour . Works more often than it does n't . Silly and energetic ... it 's pure fluff , but it 's cute . Completely mediocre . One of the lamest remakes of a classic film I 've ever seen . Mildly amusing Jackie Chan adventure . A dead-on-arrival movie idea . A two-hour version of the Jules Verne story that is only intermittently fun , despite lavish expenditures on CGI and stunt work . 	Hit-and-miss family fare that bares only the slightest resemblance to Verne 's novel .
once upon a time in america Great scene follows great scene with inventive direction for almost four hours . Visually stunning , rich in detail , and filled with outstanding performances . Pure cinematic bliss . Here was a filmmaker who specialized in pure , blistering images , and this operatic earthiness just does n't play as well as the horrifying , salacious stuff . A disappointment of considerable proportions . A work of tremendous intellectual depth and emotional range Leone is less interested in arousing an audience 's easier emotions than in presenting , at a dispassionate distance , the horror of two men warily walking toward each other on a tightrope suspended above the snake pit of their , deepest compulsions . The film slips easily back and forth in time , dancing between the decades , often making the connection from one era to another solely by means of brilliant cuts that work like magic . The perfect swan song for Leone . A obviedade da meia hora final compromete o impacto do filme - que , ainda assim , impressiona por sua escala pica , por suas elegantes transies de tempo e timas atuaes . 	Sergio Leone 's epic crime drama is visually stunning , stylistically bold , and emotionally haunting , and filled with great performances from the likes of Robert De Niro and James Woods .
final destination 2 Where else have you seen a death scene that involved a leaking aquarium , a crane , pigeons , a mobile , a sheet of glass and nitrous oxide ? Even more than Part 1 , the real stars of this movie are the elegantly choreographed freak accidents . With most every ounce of effort and imagination going into figuring out 'creative ' ways to kill the various characters , the film is otherwise an empty exercise in brutal and sadistic horror humor . Perhaps you ca n't cheat death in Final Destination 2 , but apparently you can kill originality . Takes a good idea from the first film and pounds it into the ground , not to mention decapitating , electrocuting , skewering , blowing up , incinerating , drowning and gassing it . Opens with a horrific traffic accident , which seems apt since what follows is the cinematic equivalent of rubbernecking . Fully aware that this is a rehash of what was supposed to be a one-trick pony , the filmmakers have upped the ante by delivering some gratifyingly gruesome death scenes . ... one of the most purely enjoyable films out there right now . Joyeusement morbide . And when a group of folks narrowly escapes dying in a particular order , expect them to be knocked off , one by one , in the exact sequence they would have died originally . In other words , not only is Death relentless , it 's also anal retentive . 	This sequel is little more than an excuse to stage elaborate , gory scenes of characters getting killed off .
back to the future 2 Sure , [ Back to the Future II ] has a clunky first act - which takes place in a hilariously overblown futuristic society - but the film knows just how , and when , to entertain us , and it does so in spades . Has the spirit , but it lacks the heart of the original film , and more importantly , much of the humor . Uneven but still enjoyable , delivers a darker scenario than the ending of the first film would imply . It turned off most viewers , but fascinated me . A surprisingly oppressive , rapid-fire , noisy , gadget-filled action picture lacking the emotion of the original film . By the end , you may feel that you 've just sat through a feature-length commercial for both part one ( which has to be seen to make this sequel comprehensible ) and part three ( a trailer for it literally ends part two ) . A weak , convoluted attempt to cash in on the original 's charms . The movie is fun , mostly because it 's so screwy . An ambitious film that fails to recreate the warmth or excitment of the first Back To The Future . The relatively quaint and simple time travel arc from BTTF gets far more confusing and , in some ways , more fulfilling . 	Back to the Future II is far more uneven than its predecessor , but its madcap highs outweigh the occasionally cluttered machinations of an overstuffed plot .
im not scared [ It 's ] so perfectly written and paced . An accomplished and evocative thriller from Italy . Both atmospheric thriller and heartbreaking coming-of-age tale . ... a fascinating , if frustrating , look at the relative lack of power and security and place a child has in our modern world . This is a visually stunning film , an intelligently consummated marriage of genres resulting in a movie that is , if not unique , at least very special . Brilliantly shows the frivolity of childhood and the joy of summertime -- an effectively contrasting background against which to set a kidnapping drama , you must admit . It offers a fresh , stylish , and considerably more intelligent treatment of familiar genre material . [ It ] first catches your attention [ with ] the crime ... but what you 'll remember long after is the terrible dilemma of a young boy being forced to face the real world . With a graceful confidence Salvatores has made a movie in which good and evil flow into each other as easily as day and night . Cristiano is completely believable as Michele , and , as the confused kidnapped boy who believes he has died and that Michele is an angel , Mattia Di Pierro is unforgettable . 	A well-acted and thrilling coming-of-age tale that captures a child awakening to the frightening world of adults .
mr deeds Though it 's enjoyable , you ca n't help but feel the squandered situations and talent , flattened by mediocre writing and direction . 'If you 've seen the original ... steer clear of the new knockoff , lest your heart be broken . ' This movie would n't be worth paying to see even if you had 40 billion dollars . It 's not that the gags are n't funny here and there ... it 's that they do n't add up to a movie , or really pretend to . Adam Sandler comedy is more of -- and less than -- his previous `` little guy makes good '' films . This heavy-handed , dimwitted , dumbed-down version ca n't decide whether it 's a parody , a slapstick comedy or sappy romance . Rent `` Mr . Deeds Goes to Town . '' There 's a sense of genuine , naive good will accompanying the material that almost , but not quite , makes up for the far more than occasional lapses of successful comedy . It 's all over . We 're doomed . Hightail it to a bomb shelter , if you can find one . Otherwise , just insert your head between your legs and kiss your ass goodbye . This is very much of a mixed bag , with enough negatives to outweigh the positives . Capra 's ... common crowds too often degenerate into mobs ... . we like the mild mindlessness of the re-make a bit better . 	This update of Capra does n't hold a candle to the original , and even on its own merits , Mr . Deeds is still indifferently acted and stale .
iraq in fragments James Longley 's Iraq in Fragments is a visually stunning documentary that looks at that country through the eyes of its own people -- a novel enough approach at a time when everyone else has had their say . ... a beauty and a richly textured palette rarely seen in such video documentaries . A heartbreaking assessment of Iraq 's reconstruction from the point-of-view of its intended beneficiaries . What justifies the film , and makes it compelling , is the corresponding subjectivity of its Iraqi narrators , who lend this movie not only their voices but their eyes and ears . [ An ] evocative , heartbreaking documentary told from three disparate but equally compelling perspectives : the Sunnis , Shiites and Kurds . What makes Iraq In Fragments so distinctive is its impressionistic and at times lyrical imagery . In the end , the movie is more than the sum of its fragments . The montages are intense , the images ravishing . The movie is tactile . When you finally feel this place , you understand just how little you understand . Longley 's journalistic discipline is as impressive as his artistic eye : He 's content to show , not tell . Longley 's access to public and private developments in the wake of the U.S. invasion of Iraq is often stunning . In a series of stunningly filmed sequences , Longley and his camera seek out the real lives outside the frame of conventional TV news , and he succeeds in creating both compelling journalism and superb images . 	A stylistically bold , humanist take on the difficulties of post-invasion Iraq .
how high If ( it had ) hung on to the consistency of comedy ... '' How High '' might have been funny enough that its pointlessness and incongruous storytelling would n't have mattered . Maintains a consistent level of a swaggering , semi-anarchic silliness reminiscent of '70s youth-skewing comedies . I doubt that Method Man and Redman , the two joint-puffing stars , would watch their own movie without chemical assistance . For that matter , I expect they had plenty while making it . The infectious high spirits amid its cartoonish chaos compensate for the film 's bald deficiencies and gag-inducing gags . Like its lead characters , this movie is smarter than it sometimes acts . If ever there was a movie whose message we did n't need , it 's Jesse Dylan 's How High , which glorifies drug usage . Comes blanketed in a toked-up haze through which no one seems able to read their cue cards . The biggest problem , ironically , is that even though the plot and the action center on smoking pot , it 's not enough of a stoner flick . Silly , sloppy , and liberated from any sense of pacing or plot Lowbrow , vulgar , and certainly formulaic , it 's also creative , absolutely hilarious , and ... knows better than to shoot over its audience 's heads . 	How High is a sloppily constructed stoner movie filled with lame , vulgar jokes .
10008991-informers Occasionally , some fool gets the idea that his literary wretched excess would make for a good film . Life is a bitch and then you go to L.A . Much of it remains purposefully pointless , and Ellis and Jordan never attempt to reframe the dead-eyed hedonism and solipsism that makes these characters very hard to care about . Director Gregor Jordan seems to have gone into reverse since his 2001 Buffalo Soldiers , aiming for the LA rondeau of Altman 's Short Cuts but missing all the vital ingredients - wit , humanity , charm , nuance and meaning . A lurid , soapy , moralistic melodrama so mucky you 'll need a shower . Jordan gives all this an entirely appropriate sheen and the cast play well through glazed eyes . The film will fascinate those who love to see the tormented lives of those who seem luckier than the rest of us . In the buff naughty boobs 'n buns bad parenting sex and drug addiction romp . And a weird cry for help cinema probing wasted LA youth without adult supervision in sight . Though with sly hints on where all those hallucinatory Hollywood plots arise . A grim , open-ended study in smooth surfaces , skin and 25-year-old pop-culture references . It has a good cast and a terrific 1980s soundtrack ( Devo , Simple Minds ) , but it also has the superficiality of a TV soap . The Informers is not so bad that you ca n't sit back and enjoy it , but nor is it good enough to go and see . TMZ with phony gravitas . Ellis ' stories had more oomph before drug-crazed screwups like Britney Spears , Lindsay Lohan and Amy Winehouse became the center of the Internet news cycle . 	As miserable and insipid as its protagonists , The Informers fails to provide anything to think about after the sheen of fake blond is gone .
real cancun There 's a case to be made for The Real Cancun as a document of the mating dance as well as an unintentionally poignant film about the brevity of youth . A fascinating document about the hollowness of contemporary youth culture . RW vet and director Rick De Oliveira 's well-placed music and snappy cuts stir up plenty of action , once again proving that edited reality is often stranger -- and funnier -- that fiction . A hopelessly , shallow 'reality ' movie . An exploitative piece of low-ball , high profit movie making that 's not as titillating as some might be expecting and not very good beyond all of that . A 90-minute confessathon minus the bleeped-out cuss words and pixelated breasts . Cancun is our collective punishment for enjoying Jackass : The Movie so much . The unscripted result is undeniably entertaining , though calling it 'reality ' is a bit of a stretch . What good documentaries have that The Real Cancun sadly lacks is a good story . This is a youth comedy without humor , a porn Web site without porn and reality without a trace of the real . 	The footage is predictable and rather tame , and most of the people are uninteresting .
coyote ugly A talented young cast in service of a project that 's every bit as shrewd as it is shrill and silly . Makes self-debasement in pursuit of self-fulfillment not just legitimate but fun . Gina Wendkos ' screenplay manages to make `` Flashdance '' seem plot-heavy by comparison . ... we see the lovely faces of Perabo , Miko and Moynahan and the swinging hips and stomping feet of three anonymous dance doubles . It 's a terrible movie . The movie should appeal to anyone who likes films as mushy and unsurprising as baby food . Solamente es recomendable ver en uno de esos das en los que no hay absolutamente nada que hacer . Para dar pena ajena . A movie that 's the 'follow your dream ' equivalent of singing karaoke along with a DVD of Flashdance . As slick and mindless as one might expect ... Fabulously bad , thuddingly sexy and brilliantly stupid . With all of its contrivances , clichs , and preponderance , Coyote Ugly might have well been taking place on Mars . 	Well , the women in this film are incredibly attractive and flaunt that fact quite a lot . Unfortunatly , that 's all there is to the film . The script is almost as big a joke as the charactors , and everything else follows the same path . If you 're looking for a tease then see this flick , otherwise stay as far away as possible .
one true thing It 's Streep to the max ! Streep manages to transcend the material and outshine her other fellow cast members to such a degree that you wish they and the material were at least as good as she is . Probably wo n't appeal to teens . Heartfelt acting and imaginative filmmaking transform soap-opera into an affecting screen experience . Zellweger gives a rich performance ! Pumps new life into the dying-nobly-of-a-horrible-disease genre We 're here for the acting , and we get it . The actors are all phenomenally affecting , and Carl Franklin 's direction and Declan Quinn 's camerawork make the most of the little moments that pass between people . Streep 's performance will probably secure her another Oscar nomination . One True Thing has the most honest , layered and authentic family dynamic of any American movie in recent memory . 	Solid performances lift this drama to a higher level .
american president Genial middlebrow fare that coasts a long way on the charm of its two stars . as the 1995 film veers away from the romance , into definable ( and dated ) political issues , it loses some of its magic . Peppered with terrific performances from a bevy of familiar faces . When it comes right down to it , high office does not guarantee high comedy . 'Capraesque ' has inevitably been affixed to The American President , but that phrase , with its implications of facile hokum , does n't do the film justice . The American President becomes a pretty darn entertaining and affecting movie after its first simpering 20 minutes . As bustling and impassioned as the best Sturges and Capra movies . Got the same zip as When Harry Met Sally . An extremely savvy observation on politics in the media age . Sorkin starts his West Wing warm-up with a winning political rom-com . 	A charming romantic comedy with political bite , Rob Reiner 's American President features strong lead performances and some poignant observations of politics and media in the 1990s .
alone in the dark This is pretty close to one of the worse movies that I 've ever seen and having to recap it is making my brain bleed.. ... asking the viewer to accept Tara Reid as a scientist is pure insanity , requiring a staggering leap of faith that I ca n't even begin to contemplate . Tara Reid responds to the camera like she 's just caught a paparazzo ; every line of dialogue begins with , 'Hey guys , ' be it ordering lunch or reacting to mortal danger . Grab your funniest smartass friends and have a good time ripping this piece of crap to shreds . I know I did . But if you 're looking for a good movie , stay away ! This horror film , spun off from an old Atari video game , is so inept on every level , you wonder why the distributor did n't release it straight to video , or better , toss it directly into the trash . Utterly lost by its end , you can just sit back and let yourself be hijacked by the movie 's outrageous dialogue , hyperventilating performances and all-around commitment to overkill . Unconvincing leads , nonsensical plot , dumb staging -- this movie has it all . Terrible beyond belief , like the worst 1940s serial ever made . As for Slater and Dorff ... well , they 've been in worse movies -- wait a minute , no they have n't . Once the poorly staged mayhem erupts , there 's no disguising the fact that it 's all been a pointless buildup to 40 minutes of running , shooting and screaming , and you 've wasted whatever time and attention you devoted to following any of its minutiae . Laughably bad . 	Inept on almost every level , Alone in the Dark may not work as a thriller , but it 's good for some head-slapping , incredulous laughter .
gunnin for that 1 spot This is just a dull promotional video . Gunnin ' for That # 1 Spot is an on-the-fly record of a memorable moment in basketball history . A ho-hum basketball documentary . At the heart of everything there 's Yauch , directing with remarkable authority for someone who 's pretty new to the director 's chair . An impressive feat on every level as Yauch brings an unbridled passion to shining a spotlight on some of the country 's finest young basketball players in a way that can be appreciated by anyone and everyone . Would be more at home on ESPN than the big screen . But B-Ball fans should enjoy it in either venue . Call it Hoop Daydreams : a whiz-bang frolic through the lives and skills of eight high-school basketball players who dribble , pass and shoot their way into the ultimate city-park game . A cool look at superstars-to-be paying respect to Harlem 's Rucker Park on their path to hoops greatness . The extraordinary athleticism and skills of these teenagers , all prime prospects for eventual NBA stardom , makes this a game you really want to see . Although much of its archive footage from high school games shows up blurry , pixleated or in an otherwise raw form , it nonetheless clarifies the abilities of thoroughly committed young players executing their most impressive basketball skills . 	Beastie Boy Adam Yauch proves his worth as a director with Gunnin ' for That # 1 Spot , a fun-filled chronicle of the top high school hoopsters of 2006 .
the girl who kicked the hornets nest criers and the soft of heart need not apply Fans will presumably get what they came for ; what anyone else gets out of it is hard to say . A rousing , grueling , almost operatically scaled finale to the series . The Girl Who Makes Us Wish We Were Anywhere Else . A bunch of evil old men get their comeuppance in 'The Girl Who Kicked the Hornet 's Nest , ' but the girl who messes with their nest does hardly anything at all . Mostly talk and little action ... Actress Noomi Rapace remains a strong presence as Lisbeth and is worthy of end-of-the-year awards consideration for her memorable work in the trilogy . While the least satisfying instalment in the trilogy , this still throbs with a slow-burning tension and provides an appropriate farewell to a compelling series . While the events are fascinating and entertaining , the film itself is less emotionally involving or viscerally thrilling . One final course of Europudding that may leave audiences feeling less satisfied than simply tired and bloated . Will make no sense to those who have n't seen the first two or read the books 	Slow and mostly devoid of the stellar chemistry between its two leads , The Girl Who Kicked The Hornet 's Nest is a disappointingly uneven conclusion to the Millennium trilogy .
crank high voltage They 've cranked it up another couple notches for Crank : High Voltage , with mixed results . Better not operate any heavy machinery after an eyeful of Crank : High Voltage For all its ADD editing , it 's a joyless slog . Copping to how unrealistic your movie is by excusing it ( no , no , it 's a video game ! ) , rather than running with it , is a mistake that Taylor and Neveldine never recover from . Feels like shock for shock 's sake instead of something morbidly inventive like the first one . If your idea of quality entertainment is a steady diet of video games , porn and Mountain Dew commercials , Crank wants your business ! It 's a hyperactive , relentlessly violent and po-faced mean S.O.B . - and I guarantee you 'll 3/4 every minute . Yes , it 's supposed to be dreadful , but it turns out that `` Crank : High Voltage '' is genuinely insufferable ... Surely something so gleefully disgusting should n't have to work this hard to make an impression . Both exhilarating and exhausting , it falls just short of a fever pitch . The whole film is a series of frenetically-edited action sequences and bizarre set-pieces roughly stitched together to form some kind of whole . It 's been made with tongue firmly in cheek and is often funny for it . 	Crank : High Voltage delivers on its promises : a fast-paced , exciting thrill ride that does n't take itself too seriously .
fruitvale station Coogler immerses us in this life , so that when it 's cut short , you wo n't just weep , you 'll cry out in protest . Fruitvale Station is great political filmmaking because it 's great filmmaking , period . A star-making performance by Michael B. Jordan . This chronicle of a death foretold celebrates an individual 's efforts to do better even as it laments his - and his nation 's - difficulties in moving on . Many recent movies so cavalierly dispense thousands upon thousands of ammunition rounds , you can sometimes forget the effect that one bullet can have on human life . Michael B. Jordan wins you over completely before the devastating finale . Those pulse-quickening moments at Fruitvale Station capture the chaos , confusion , fear and hate that provoked the perfect storm for tragedy . Fruitvale Station will rock your world -- and , if the life of Oscar Grant means anything , compel you to work to change it . It 's ragged around the edges , but this remains a stirring tribute to Grant . And coaxed by the assured Coogler , Jordan delivers a performance that will long be remembered . does something more radical ... humanizes the protagonist The story draws power from the simple rhythms of a day spent with family , friends and strangers . One of the year 's best films . 	Passionate and powerfully acted , Fruitvale Station serves as a celebration of life , a condemnation of death , and a triumph for star Michael B. Jordan .
last king of scotland Mr. Whitaker and Mr. McAvoy head a first-rate cast that helps The Last King of Scotland to illuminate one of the many dark chapters in recent African history . Forest Whitaker has been one of our most interesting actors for 20 years , and he gives the performance of a lifetime in The Last King of Scotland . [ Director Kevin Macdonald ] captures the energy and exuberance of a young nation in the throes of optimism and works it into a foreboding frenzy . Whitaker shifts from jovial teddy bear to maniacal bull in an instant , at once displaying the intimidation and charisma of an evil but undeniably colorful figure . Forest Whitaker 's performance as Idi Amin is so good it 's scary . Forest Whitaker 's intense , studied performance shows Amin not only as a madman responsible for the deaths of tens of thousands of his countrymen , but as a charismatic figure capable of winning hearts and minds Hard to believe that an actor previously renowned for his gentleness could play such a monster , but the transformation is seamless . Whitaker 's riveting performance as the unraveling Amin is where this film wants to be ; instead we 're stuck with Garrigan 's Jesus Christ pose , and the expected out that amounts to little more than , `` Forget it , Nick . It 's Africa . '' Whitaker is formidably compelling as a man whose quixotic temperament and larger-than-life persona both fascinate and repel . It seems certain Whitaker will get that Oscar nod for superbly conveying Amin 's weird mix of buffoonery and cold-bloodedness . 	Forest Whitaker 's performance as real-life megalomaniac dictator Idi Amin powers this fictionalized political thriller , a blunt and brutal tale about power and corruption .
better luck tomorrow If this is what Lin can do for the Hollywood equivalent of pocket change , we ca n't wait to see what 's possible when he has an actual budget at his disposal . The director sacrifices finesse to run around in the baggy duds of a lurid gangsta flick looking for street cred . There 's something refreshing about the violation of ethnic stereotypes , especially when the stereotype is politically correct and the violation is more than a simple counterstereotype . Better Luck Tomorrow breathes new life into a familiar story : coming of age in high school . If 'Tomorrow ' has the feel of an afterschool special , it 's a surprisingly good one . Smartly photographed and edited , it manages to walk the difficult tightrope strung between the typically loopy coming of age film and a simmering disaster in the making . Better Luck Tomorrow is an inventively delivered cautionary tale about some smart and upwardly mobile Asian high school students who , bored with their lives , embark on a course of violence and self-destructiveness . Intriguing but dramatically thin . Beyond its mangled morals ... Better Luck is a riveting and stylized ride from a director with great promise . MTV ( which bought this movie out of Sundance ) believes the target audience to be high school and college students . I would argue that it 's anyone in search of a well-made , thought-provoking motion picture . 	A promising work by Lin , the energetic Better Luck Tomorrow is disturbing and thought-provoking .
still alice Julianne Moore gives the performance of her career ( no mean feat , given the strength of her previous work ) in this heartbreaking yet life-affirming tale of a woman determined to hold onto her identity while under attack from a debilitating mental disease . The focus on Alzheimer 's might be off-putting , but do n't let that stop you from seeing Julianne Moore in Still Alice . More sincere than convincing , Still Alice is the rare picture that earns plaudits for its star dimming , not glowing . In a real sense , Moore gradually disappears from her own movie . The toll the disease takes on the life of a brilliant linguistics professor is superbly detailed by Julianne Moore in a career-high performance , driving straight to the terror of the disease and its power to wipe out personal certainties and identity . Julianne Moore is wonderfully good as Alice and her performance will bring a tear to many eyes . This middlebrow drama presents the heroine 's mental deterioration calmly and sensitively , though it feels pretty thin on the whole . When it 's not fending off an attack of the glums , Still Alice comes down with a big case of the prims . It 's heart-breaking to watch , made all the more poignant by Julianne Moore 's largely subdued , deeply moving performance . Julianne Moore is devastatingly good , charting Alice 's decline with subtlety and grace . It 's just a slight disappointment that her Oscar-worthy performance is not just the crux of Still Alice , but also the film 's entirety . Still Alice is so busy being compassionate that it forgets to be anything else . 	Elevated by a gripping performance from Julianne Moore , Still Alice is a heartfelt drama that honors its delicate themes with bravery and sensitivity .
drunk stoned brilliant dead the story of the national lampoon If only Drunk Stoned Brilliant Dead was a fraction as intelligent or entertaining as its subject . [ Both ] a glorious celebration of the lunatic fringe ( led by wild-child Doug Kenney ) and a cautionary tale of the destructive impact of fame and fortune . Drunk Stoned Brilliant and Dead is a reminder that the NL 's reach , scope and legacy is rich and varied ; indeed it might be thought of the putrid petri dish where an entire generation of North American comics were cultured . This is just about hanging around talking about the glory days , and as far as reminisces go , you could do worse than the group of people who put out the funniest work of the '70s . The laughs come from the vintage bits , and there 's a little missing context . But any documentary that humanizes Chevy Chase is a movie making miracle . Talking heads , rock n ' roll spirit , and animated elements of the magazine come to life in comedic form . There 's certainly nothing wrong with this approach , but it 's certainly becoming formulaic . It mistakes touch-and-go navel-gazing for comprehension , as if speaking to as many subjects as possible produces an inherently compelling take . Whiplash-inducing . Considering all the scenes of the staff working in a pot haze , the filmmakers might have benefited from taking a hit or several . full of magic and promise Director Douglas Tirola and his many interview subjects make a strong case for the Lampoon itself as genuinely transformative . 	Drunk Stoned Brilliant Dead might not be the definitive doc National Lampoon fans are waiting for , but it 's still almost as transgressively funny as the magazine in its heyday .
the angels share Loach films have been funny while making their point before ( see `` Riff Raff '' ) , but this one is imbued with a little bit of magic ... Those offended by four letter words should be warned that even the voice of God slings a heavy dose of them here . While a few farcical moments fizzle , it 's mostly charming . Loach takes us through the mysteries of whisky making , exploring the subtle tastes and scents in ways that will have audiences wishing they had a dram at hand . But a glass also serves more symbolic purposes ... Newcomer Brannigan is a real find , though his dramatic weight is splendidly countered by the scene-stealing Maitland who provides one of the film 's two unforgettable , can't-believe-he-did-that moments . The result is a sometimes gritty , occasionally charming Highland hybrid , but the final balance feels slightly off-kilter . The film has a rough and ready look , but the charm of its battler characters shines through and there 's plenty to relish here , even though the plot gets more and more improbable the further it proceeds . There is love , laughter and whisky galore in Ken Loach 's unusually joyful comedy drama about delinquent Scottish youths defying the odds society has stacked against them . `` The Angels ' Share '' leaves a warm glow . Ken Loach goes full-on feel-good with this enjoyable , rough-edged and well acted comedy drama that 's by turns moving , suspenseful and laugh-out-loud funny . A whimsical crime caper comedy in the Ealing vein about a bunch of delinquent Glaswegians who pull off a very unlikely heist - think Whisky Galore with sweary Neds instead of twinkling Hebridean islanders . 	The Angels ' Share is a surprisingly delightful , uplifting comedy that successfully blends a charming story of redemption with bits of dark humor and a social message .
ajami You emerge from Ajami moved and also a little worn out , but mostly grateful for the heart , craft and intelligence the movie has shown . This is vividly challenging , utterly inclusive and heartfelt cinema . It 's not only gripping to watch , but it 'll open your eyes to the intractable human conundrums behind the blood-stained headlines . A compelling drama about prejudice and folly . Ajami , nominated for the foreign lingo Oscar , captures impressively the entire spectrum of religious and cultural diversity of contempo Israel , but the tale is repetitious and unnecessarily convoluted , imitating Gomorroah and other multi-layered crimers . Extraordinarily accomplished and deeply provocative , the film 's appeal among sophisticated filmgoers should remain strong throughout Oscar season and beyond . The pattern of connections and coincidences is a little overschematic , but the movie has energy , especially in the grippingly real shooting scene at the beginning . Ajami keeps asking : When do people cross the line ? And when does pulling the trigger become a viable option ? ... deft filmmaking and storytelling by the tyro directing team . I can not wait to see their follow up works . By showing how people fail to live together - in a film you could call Israel 's City of God , with its sectarian-feuding story lent power and immediacy by improvisation and non-professional casting - Ajami shows how they might or should live together . Ajami is a powerful crime drama in which all are heroes and all are villains . 	This multi-character drama balances intimate portrayals and broad political implications to paint a bracing and moving portrait of the Middle East conflict .
1196221-quarantine This derivative horror flick can be confined along with its numerous inspirations . Good Halloween-type fun for the fans of adult thrillers , 'Quarantine ' is a cleverly done scare flickt aht will keep you wondering who 's going to get it next . 'Quarantine ' is a solid horror movie and one of the better to be released this year . The last 15 minutes is hardcore suspense that redeem any cheap movie making flaws . I do n't care how dedicated a TV journalist you are : when a rabid , shrieking hellion lunges for your neck , teeth a-gnashin ' , it 's time to hit the standby button and defend yourself . Quarantine is the type of movie that is made to see in a theatre . The film is brutally realistic and shot in such a way that you feel like you are watching real footage . I have seen many execrable films -- Plan 9 From Outer Space , Disaster Movie , Batman & Robin -- but never has a movie made me so physically ill . Unlike so many other jerky camera horrors , and even zombie film shockers , Quarantine escalates the tension with a perfect sense of fearful exploitation . One of the best chillers of 08 . Actress Jennifer Carpenter of Exorcism of Emily Rose fame surely deserves some kind of award for giving the most hysterical over-the-top performance in a horror movie since Marilyn Burns in the original 1974 Texas Chain Saw Massacre . Despite tweaking the format , Quarantine successfully replicates the claustrophobic tension of [ REC ] and cranks up the sudden eruptions of frenzied violence , making it as much of a white-knuckle terror ride as it was the first time around . Quarantine fails to correct some of the problems evident in its predecessor while also incorporating a few defects of its own . 	Quarantine uses effective atmosphere and consistent scares to stand above the crop of recent horror films .
flammen and citronen It 's fast-paced , stylish and thrilling . But it also raises one tough question . Maintains a high level of suspense for more than two hours . Unfortunately , although it was supposedly inspired by the morally conflicted French Resistance masterpiece Army of Shadows , Flame fizzles more than it flames . A suspenseful , often riverting drama of World War II resistance that combines old-fashioned virtues of craft and style with a more modern sense of nuance and complexity . Mads Mikkelsen is one of the most charismatic actors working on the international scene today . Just indulge yourself in the Pusher trilogy and After the Wedding and you 'll rejoice . You might also recall him as a Bond villain in Casino Royale . This film is based on a true story that director Ole Christian Madsen feels must be told with earnest noir and war-movie clichs . A classic piece of historical action narrative told in a lean no-nonsense manner with riveting action sequences . A great war story . Flame & Citron , based on the lives of two actual Resistance heroes , is a taut , handsome production -- the most expensive Danish film to date -- and it looks like a film noir , as indeed the costumes , cars , guns and fugitives force it to . ... a film noir set in wartime where there 's moral ambiguity almost everywhere you look as well as large measures of heroism , treachery and ordinary human failings . A heady take on the wartime resistance tale that drags you right into the dismay felt by its heroes . 	The true story of the Danish resistance in WW2 , though lengthy and sprawling , is gripping and competently made .
devils rejects The year 's most viciously entertaining psycho-road- movie-revenge- 'n'-wreckage- romance . The Devil 's Rejects plays out like the kind of film everyone thought House was gon na be - a retrofied , nasty horror homage . Zombie ... should n't be allowed to make any more horror movies until he learns the difference between what is horrifying and what is merely disgusting . Thirty years ago this would have been dismissed as drive-in fare and , frankly , it 's not much more than that today . If we 're supposed to hang out with these creeps in order , eventually , to like them , well , we do n't . A damn fine '70s homage flick with a Western-horror touch that you wo n't find in many movies nowadays . If you dig this sort of gross-out throwback to the horror movies of the '70s , by all means , accept `` The Devil 's Rejects . '' Beyond the sheer creativity of Zombie 's sick imagination , there 's little pleasure to be found in a movie of this nature . Casts light on what it is about the way we are that make wickedness so damnably attractive . In a league of classic films that are legendary for how disconcerting they are . 	Zombie has improved as a filmmaker since `` House of 1000 Corpses '' and will please fans of the genre , but beware -- the horror is nasty , relentless , and sadistic .
donnie brasco Pacino 's performance is great and the story seems to have an interesting take on human nature , but the bland , mechanical direction make it not quite worthy of a full recommendation . Remains a bore for much of its running time . [ Newell and Attanasio ] pay as much attention to emotional details as to the clockwork details of mob life . I do n't know if I can emphasize enough how much I enjoyed the fine performances of Depp and Pacino . Though the outline of what the film has tried to do is visible , so little feels at stake emotionally that anyone intending to care about these characters would be well advised , for want of a better phrase , to simply fhuggedaboudit . A consistently absorbing and intelligent adult entertainment . A tight , character-driven drama -- a rarity in today 's Hollywood , it 's not to be missed . [ Pacino 's ] turn as a low-level mobster is his most relaxed and charming work in years . Unfortunately , the story is n't inventive and Newell 's methodical approach to it verges on monotony . You get something far richer , if more unsettling , here than conventional crime drama 's romanticism and easy analogies . 	A stark , nuanced portrait of life in organized crime , bolstered by strong performances from Al Pacino and Johnny Depp .
1007141-fatal attraction Very intense . Tense and terrifying . While billed as a romance and a thriller , the film strictly qualifies as neither , appealing to our prurience , guilt , hatred , and dread . This story of an extramarital fling that turns into a nightmare begins as a well-crafted psychological thriller but degenerates into a misogynistic thrill-fest in its closing moments . It 's nothing but a Friday the 13th flick for people who would n't be caught dead at one . Under the direction of Adrian Lyne , most of the picture 's situations seem like randomly chosen place holders , flat events that just fill time until the final bizarre confrontation . Adultery-obsession thriller is n't for kids ( or bunnies ) . one of those rare films that became a true cultural phenomenon See website for more details . Close attention reveals plenty of flaws but for sheer heart-in-the-mouth excitement it remains a triumph . 	A potboiler in the finest sense , Fatal Attraction is a sultry , juicy thriller that 's hard to look away from once it gets going .
i still know what you did last summer This one 's for die-hard genre fans only . And even then , it 's only good to snicker at the obvious cliches and overall predictablity . The prospect of a third installment of this derivative series is much scarier than anything that happens in the movie . About as dull and unoriginal as the title suggests . There are enough jolts to unsettle , and a chilling music score , but too many bloodied bodies and screaming , and the filmmaker is constantly telling us how to feel . throws all logic out the window , raises the gore quotient and offers more offensive racial stereotypes than any WB or UPN sitcom . Needless to say , logic takes a holiday , just not in the Bahamas . [ Blu-ray ] The original film , itself no masterpiece , at least had a strong premise , from Lois Duncan 's novel , and complicated its characterisations by an unusual class awareness . Director Danny Cannon knows how to give a Hitchcockian air to an island-style Bates Motel . I still do n't care . I Still Know What You Did Last Summer is n't the end of the line for the series ( a third movie is already in the works ) , but it deserves to be . 	Boring , predictable , and bereft of thrills or chills , I Still Know What You Did Last Summer is exactly the kind of rehash that gives horror sequels a bad name .
mission impossible 2 Kimball 's work is always appealing to the eye yet never too noticeable so as to draw attention away from the movie 's plot . A dizzyingly enjoyable retro rollercoaster . A vaguely absurd epidemiological thriller filled with elaborately superfluous setups and shamelessly stale James Bond riffs . A disappointing foray , a generic piece of very expensive filmmaking that lacks the James Bond wit and eclat while at the same time highlights a romance that is as sexless as it is inconceivable . [ John Woo ] sacrifices logic and narrative coherence with less hesitation than one of his villains would display in shooting an accomplice to avoid apprehension . It 's still entertaining and fun , in a check-your-brain-at-the-box-office kind of way . Bottom line , M : I-2 seems destined to create the kind of excitement and box-office punch that insiders have been predicting since the turn of the century . Cruise se juega sus mejores cartas y sale victorioso gracias a su carisma y al talento y visin de John Woo If you 're into movies that constantly make you grin like an idiot and mutter `` Oh yeah ! '' over and over , you 'll be satisfied . The makers do n't go out of their way to make this original in any way , but the quality comes through . 	Your cranium may crave more substance , but your eyes will feast on the amazing action sequences .
marine The Marine will trigger a strong sense of deja vu for anyone who recalls the slapdash , slam-bang action fare that was standard-issue drive-in fodder during the 1970s . There are people who will see `` The Marine '' just because it features John Cena , and those people will not be disappointed : The movie does , in fact , feature John Cena . Absurdly over-muscled WWE star John 'The Franchise ' Cena makes his bid to be the next Schwarzenegger in this lunkheaded but entertaining action flick . A delectably bad '80s-style actioner . These guys do n't much about making movies , but they know how to stage a smack down . If there ever was a reason why studios do n't screen films , this is the Rosetta stone . The Marine settles for action pieces performed by broad character types . In other words , it 's a lot like a night of wrestling . Cena 's dialogue is held to a monosyllabic minimum ... Already used to bad acting , lame action , and unbelievably stupid stories Cena 's fans will love it . Derivative in the extreme , but some good stunt work and humorous touches make it a lot more tolerable than it could have been . 	Overblown in every possible way , The Marine is either so bad it 's good or just really , really bad .
the dreamlife of angels [ Bouchez and Regnier have ] fleshed out portraits of a depth rarely seen on screen . Zonca shows an extraordinary ability to get into the female psyche . As raw and immediate as it is heartfelt . An engrossing , occasionally revelatory experience . Just a bunch of uninteresting characters who spend their time co-existing in an uneasy friendship , smoking too much , and having sex with people who are even worse than them . Sad and thought provoking , and the performances of its leads make it well worth watching . In an American indie , the two girls would be cute slackers ; in Dreamlife , they 're imbued with the inchoate sadness of feminine existential loneliness . Using decidedly unglamorous locales and stars , director Erick Zonca has given the story what amounts to an almost documentary feel ; Isa and Marie seem so true-to-life at times you might feel a bit voyeuristic . Heralds a humanist cinema that neither shortchanges our minds nor cheapens what 's in our hearts . The movie understands what few American movies admit : Not everyone can afford the luxury of following their hearts . 	Showcasing excellent lead performances , The Dreamlife of Angels is an intelligent , absorbing character study of two women .
field of dreams [ A ] special experience , sort of an It 's a Wonderful Life for the late '80s . If you 're in the right mood this movie will bring a tear to your eye . An engaging film that uses baseball as a launch pad for musings on human aspirations , righting old wrongs , and going the distance . Alden 's script goes from charming to preposterous to preachy . Field of Dreams sustains a dreamy mood in which the idea of baseball is distilled to its purest essence : a game that stands for unsullied innocence in a cruel , imperfect world . Despite a lovely cameo turn by Burt Lancaster , Field of Dreams is the male weepie at its wussiest . This fantasy drama from director Phil Alden Robinson is a delightful blend of the blind-fate story and the more fanciful feel-good corn of Frank Capra . Widely regarded as a modern populist classic , the film is both a fabulist fable and a celebratory baseball movie that acknowledges scandal within the sport but also the game 's transcendent ability to rise above attempts to damage its integrity . [ Blu-ray ] Anyone who loves their father or baseball -- or both -- will find it difficult -- no , impossible -- to resist this hokey , wonderful film . The finest and most sentimental baseball movie ever made . If the ending does n't bring tears to your eyes , you are made of stone . A must-see . 	Field of Dreams is sentimental , but in the best way ; it 's a mix of fairy tale , baseball , and family togetherness .
meeks cutoff Reichardt has stripped `` Meek 's '' down to bare essentials and careful emotions . The cast captures that quality beautifully - like the water that is running out , everything is conserved . I guarantee you that , in a decade or two , it will be regarded as an enduring film classic . Fans of Kelly Reichardt 's minimalist portraits will adore her stark Western , but others may be taken aback by the bold lack of traditional filmmaking . A more subversive than revisionist feminist western , and with a title intimating iconic macho cowboy metaphorical castration . While touching on current persisting and troubling questions about imperialist incursions , labeled Manifest Destiny back then . Meek 's Cutoff is an ambitious feat of visual storytelling that 's alive to both its landscape and the actors who people it . This is a big movie masquerading as a small one , fully awake in even its quietest , slowest moments . A sterling effort , determined to tell some of the truth of the times . Be warned . Some stretches are almost as much of a slog for the viewer as they are for the pioneers ... But Meek 's Cutoff conveys a far more realistic account of what life was really like on the frontier trail than John Wayne or Clint Eastwood ever did . Meek 's Cutoff may not match Reichardt 's previous two works in emotional heft , but it continues to cement her as a young director to watch closely . A better complement than 'The Big Trail ' would be 'The Blair Witch Project , ' another film that taps into an American unease with the wilderness that is the shadow twin of the country 's bold sense of manifest destiny . [ Kelly Reichardt has ] taken on her biggest budget ( essentially a thicker shoestring ) and most recognizable cast yet , while fully retaining her patient , deliberate approach to narrative and attentiveness to nature as a character . 	Moving at a contemplative speed unseen in most westerns , Meek 's Cutoff is an effective , intense journey of terror and survival in the untamed frontier .
house of the devil The heroine walks about campus doing errands for about 20 minutes , then some semblance of a plot begins . Just too slow for horror fans . Paul Chambers , CNN . Devil is generously unassuming , making the film more of a secret handshake than a blood-spattered , deafening gorefest . The attention to mood and setting is marvelous . ... there 's simply never a point at which the almost distractingly uneventful narrative becomes as compelling as one might 've hoped . West is going to do something outstanding someday , as soon as he figures out something to say . Sam 's end is disturbing but also banal , even silly , but the end is not the point . The point is your anticipation . West avoids clich and cheesiness with wise casting choices . Donahue 's naturalistic performance is as persuasive as the subtly sinister portrayals by Tom Noonan and Mary Woronov . A very impressive formal exercise in style and restraint ... [ Blu-ray ] From the opening statistic about documented instances of devil-worship , West aims for a mix of the plausible and the ridiculous ... That 's the problem with this sort of homage : Unless you 've got a startling new take , you wind up with a movie that 's been done hundreds of times before , to much better effect . Slow , yet oddly spellbinding , horror film ... a living , breathing nostalgia piece oozing period authenticity 	Though its underlying themes are familiar , House of the Devil effectively sheds the loud and gory cliches of contemporary horror to deliver a tense , slowly building throwback to the fright flicks of decades past .
fletch far too silly My favorite comedy of all time Moments of humor that still have legs today . And many moments that do n't . Whenever the move threatens to work , there 's Chevy Chase with his monotone , deadpan cynicism , distancing himself from the material . A snappy , inventive comedy with Chevy Chase . One of Chase 's best Twenty-two years later , I get all the jokes , but I remain only pleasantly amused , nothing more , nothing less What truly holds Fletch together is n't the somewhat off-putting Chase -- whose screen presence was always defined by a love-it-or-hate it smugness -- but his time-tested collaborators : screenwriter Bergman ... and director Michael Ritchie ... [ Blu-ray ] One of Chevy Chase 's better comedies , which admittedly ai n't saying a whole lot . A lightweight , breezy experience that , by never pretending to be anything more than what it is , disarms criticism . 	Quotably funny -- and fast-paced enough to smooth over the jokes that do n't land -- Fletch is one of the best big-screen vehicles for Chevy Chase 's brand of smug silliness .
valiant A nice half hour documentary on the Discovery Channel would have sufficed quite nicely and been much more entertaining . Unlike the terrific claymation film Chicken Run ( 2000 ) , here the jokes largely lay eggs . The animated feature Valiant , a story about the carrier pigeons that ferried messages from France to England during World War II , takes wing but never quite manages to soar . There are far more aspects of the film that may leave younger viewers confused and may not even be fun after lengthy parental explanations . Even though its historical references and battle scenes may fly over their heads like so many homing pigeons , kids will enjoy Valiant , too , if only for its nonstop action and lively visual design . [ The vocal talents ] and some meticulous period details make up for the film 's unsurprising plot and occasional tepid stretches . Unoriginal , boring , and not all that cute . Adults will be bored and irritated by this thin film . Arguably the blandest of the burgeoning crop of big budget digitally animated films , Valiant aims to prove that the death of traditional animation has simply pushed lackluster screenplays into the digital realm . [ E ] xactly as cozily silly and as charmingly touching as you 'd expect from a nation that gives medals of valor to birds . 	Valiant has a good collection of voice talents , but the story is strictly by-the-numbers .
paul blart mall cop The film 's drawback seems to be ( Kevin ) James ' indecision on a tone as well as how to present Blart . Sensationally stupid , haphazardly made and qualifying as unmitigated trash by any standards , Paul Blart : Mall Cop also manages to be consistently hilarious , thanks to star Kevin James . Shoot me now ! This comedy from Adam Sandler 's Happy Madison production company takes itself too seriously for its own good . The last name Blart may be the funniest thing in the movie , so that 's a hint as to just how bad this shopping-center saga can be . [ James ] plays yet another misfit , but one who 's so two-dimensional , needy ( and frankly annoying ) that it 's difficult to root for him . An inoffensive way to spend 90 minutes , unless of course you 're on the husky end of the spectrum , in which case they 're all going to laugh at you . Forget the rocky character development . Give me a fat guy falling down , and I 'll start to laugh . Paul Blart : Mall Cop is a tongue-planted-firmly-in-cheek force to be reckoned with . With only some scattershot scenes of physical humor , 'Paul Blart : Mall Cop ' does little to keep viewers safe from boredom . 	Paul Blart : Mall Cop has some laughs , but its plot is flimsy and lacking in any sustained comic momentum .
four weddings and a funeral Some of the funniest scenes bounce off the nightmares of every bride and groom before the wedding . Harmless entertainment , but overpraised . The players , who include Simon Callow , Kristin Scott Thomas , Rowan Atkinson and Sophie Thompson , exude comedic brightness as they go about their gossipy , farcical , self-deprecating , sorry-about-that-old-chap , just-being-English business . An intelligent romantic comedy that appeals to our love of happy endings , without making it too trite . The simplest and most honest expression of praise that I can offer Mike Newell 's latest movie is that it represents two hours of solid movie magic . The movie is funny . It 's mostly entertaining . Grant at his bumbling , fumbling best . This is a decidedly lightweight film but well made and one that has occasionally very funny gags . The colorful cast brings it all home , and the film has become something of a minor classic in its genre . Four Weddings and a Funeral provides us with a taste of drama , a bunch of laughs and , most importantly , some restraint . 	While frothy to a fault , Four Weddings and a Funeral features irresistibly breezy humor , and winsome performances from Hugh Grant and Andie MacDowell .
affair of the necklace The psychology is muddled , the badinage is bad and the acting is inadequate . Shyer ... fails to whip the production into anything very special , and Swank seems hopelessly miscast and weak at its center . An endless illustrated Harlequin paperback of mawkish backstory and corset-popping purple prose . The film has a desperate , disjointed feel that suggests the filmmakers realized it was n't working and kept trying , ineffectually , to fix it . [ Swank 's ] out of her league here and her tendency to underplay -- as if she were afraid of the material and did n't want to risk anything flamboyant or bold -- makes her performance seem tentative , half-felt . Jeanne is no fun at all . This sumptuously designed film ... has all the ingredients of a juicy historical romp . But it 's bloodless , fussy , and undermined by Hilary Swank 's stiff , one-note performance . The entire film seems a series of disjointed pieces , a screenful of iron filings waiting in vain for the magnet that will line them up in a unified field . Sadly , Oscar-winner Swank is completely miscast and seems every bit a 20th-century woman , even in a corset and silly wig . Shyer 's film denies us the double dip of vice and virtue . It 's moralistic . 	A film about court intrigue , The Affair of the Necklace turns out to be more dull than juicy . Swank seems flat and miscast in the central role of Jeanne .
wordplay In the resourceful documentary Wordplay , action does n't speak louder than words . Instead , these components have the same creative cache worth exploring . A poignant inside look into the world of crossover puzzles of the NY Times . Intriguing , surprising and stimulating , Wordplay is much more than a documentary about a crossword tournament . Anyone who is remotely interested in the English language will be fascinated So there 's this new documentary about crossword puzzles . . . WAIT , get back here ! It 's a simple tribute to a smart man [ Shortz ] , an elite , who knew what he wanted . Boy , was I wrong . There 's more palm-sweating suspense in one minute of this baby than in all of The Omen . A wonderful little documentary that seems fascinated with humanity . This documentary is not for everyone , but if you 've ever enjoyed sitting down with coffee and a crossword , you 're part of a very large group of people who will 'get ' this film . Creadon 's inventive visuals turn puzzle-solving into a spectator sport . [ An ] amiable brainiacs-are-cool documentary . 	You see them hunched over with their brows furrowed , folded newspaper in hand as they attempt to complete the crossword puzzle . This may even describe you . This ingeniously edited documentary introduces viewers to some of the more dedicated fans of this solitary pastime , none more well-known the puzzle editor for the New York Times , Will Shortz . This underground world provides a surprising amount of crowd-pleasing entertainment and suspense , especially at the annual crossword tournament . Did n't know there was one , did you ?
baghead Directed by Jay and Mark Duplass , it 's very broad , but the satire -- and its attendant babble -- actually heightens the scares . The Duplass brothers waste a perfectly good porno premise by getting meta on our asses Once the threat arrives , I was praying to return to the childish mating rituals of these monotonous characters . Watching lousy actors try to express heartache through limited gifts is far more frightening than any masked , crazed killer . Too bad the characters are so rote . The women are almost nonentities , and the bond between the men borders on the maudlin . The actors are often better than their lines . The plot is tired , the actors are not much good , the situation is way too familiar , there is no humor or fright in sight . The co-directors and co-writers , Jay and Mark Duplass , appear to be saying , 'Hey , we are the new emperors of the independent cinema . And guess what ? We have no clothes . ' The Duplass Brothers ... get some decent mileage from their Cassavetes-lite , semi-improvisatory filmmaking approach , capturing authenticity in their cast 's fumbling gestures , half-spoken lines , and stumbling advances . This is the kind of imaginative and witty filmmaking that brings us that scarce commodity : a little movie gem . The movie 's cheap , it 's clever -- it 's even a little scary in places . Simple , minimal yet charming and original , Baghead should be included in courses like Indies 101 , as demonstration of the democratic nature of the filmmaking process and the viability of low-budget guerrilla cinema . 	Pitting actors against murderers in a self-aware struggle for stardom , Baghead successfully skates the borders of horror and comedy .
constantine I deeply loathe the Heaven-and-Hell genre to which this cinematic comic-book spectacular belongs . Screenwriter Kevin Brodbin 's script is quite wacky in parts , Keanu Reeves is -- let me just get this off my chest -- very good . There 's something seductive and irresistible about it . It 's a ponderous bore . Dull dialogue , dull situations and a serious lack of urgency hinder what should be a high-stakes slice of pseudo-religious heresy . Good-looking , but decidedly hollow . Misses the opportunity to explore its evocative central conceits by attempting to do too many other things at once , and failing . This is n't the hell that just kinda sucks . This is the Hell that puts fear in your heart and makes you want to head to church directly after leaving the theater . It may not be the first great movie of 2005 , but it is certainly the first really entertaining one . Let 's drop the bias and negativity and cut to the chase here : Reeves is good in this role . Here 's hoping that Keanu Reeves begins to get a bit of respect with Constantine , and that Francis Lawrence does n't get sold short for doing a tentpole film . 	Despite solid production values and an intriguing premise , Constantine lacks the focus of another spiritual shoot-em-up , The Matrix .
playing for keeps 2012 Hitting our screens on New Year 's Day , let 's cross our fingers and hope that Playing for Keeps is n't an indication as to how the rest of 2013 will be for cinema . Best to get it out of the way early , I suppose ! This is simply a groan-inducing comedy of errors about an accidental lothario mixed with a transparently predictable look at an irresponsible man forced to become [ better ] . At least 'Playing for Keeps ' does a service for the late Rodney Dangerfield . His 'Ladybugs ' is no longer the worst movie about a youth soccer coach . Gabriele Muccino 's film is knee-deep in `` do n't hate the player , hate the game '' territory . For a trifle - one that probably looked like one on the printed page , too - `` Playing for Keeps '' somehow attracted a strong cast . It appears to be an empty-headed piffle of a film about a dashing former professional soccer star coaching his son 's team and having affairs with an assortment of randy soccer moms . And that 's precisely what it is . Everyone involved deserves a script with more wit , originality and sense of purpose . An undistinguished , impact-free watch-checker that will soon be vaguely distracting transatlantic travelers who forgot to carry on their iPads . Smarmy . Dopey . Sloppy . Lazy . Creepy . Tone-deaf . Predictable . Embarrassing . Lousy . At this point , I 'm positive Gerard Butler selects his scripts by blindfolded dart throw . 	Witless , unfocused , and arguably misogynistic , Playing for Keeps is a dispiriting , lowest-common-denominator Hollywood rom-com .
truth about charlie Demme 's film looks very French , and appears as appetizing as a croissant . Cary Grant has somehow become Mark Wahlberg . Talk about diminished expectations . I just sort of went along for the quasi-enjoyable ride in The Truth About Charlie , crappy and nonsensical as it may be on the whole . Wahlberg comes across as a retired underwear model . The camera whirls ! The camera twirls ! Oh , look at that clever angle ! Wow , a jump cut ! May not be and should not be everyone 's cup of tea , but at the end of it , I felt a guilty affection for all its participants . Demme 's loose approach kills the suspense . With co-writers Steve Schmidt , Peter Joshua , and Jessica Bendinger , Demme takes a whack at a remake and mucks it up completely . The Truth About Charlie is the most playful film to come from Demme in a long , long time . It 's also the first of his films I 've seen that has the personality that once made his work seem so fresh , ever since 1988 's Married to the Mob . There is a light , carefree bounce to much of Charlie that makes the film a rollicking good time even after its plot has become a drag . 	Newton has star quality , but this exercise in style ca n't hold a candle to the original .
inkheart It 's the limitations of the film when considering the nearly limitless possibilities suggested by the premise that make Inkheart a disappointment . Another fantasy adventure story based on a bestselling book that turns out to be a dud . This children 's fantasy flirts with the dark side , though family values win out . Kind of a NeverEnding Story-lite , Inkheart never makes full use of its strengths . The ideas about reality and fiction have already been explored better elsewhere , even in light family films . The film 's message that books are the doorway to learning and adventure is not overplayed even if the pic cheats a bit at the end for a tidy denouement . The movie never achieves the sort of transporting fantasy that formed the backbone of the novel : The limitless potential for adventure and excitement that books provide , given physical form when transplanted into our reality . Despite strong production values and a cast of heavy hitters , Inkheart never hooks us as it should . For the effects spectacle , the film works to a degree , but the vast majority of the humdrum plot might leave more kids asleep rather than engaged . Kanones bebaia poy agnooyntai , prospernioyntai , lygizontai , i spane horis kamia egnoia , otan to apaitei i formoylaiki ploki gia na ftasei stin epomeni pista mias asymmazeyta asynartitis sto desimo tis plithorikis se ypoplokes kai deyteroys haraktires isto For a movie about the power of books and stories , it 's a bit ironic that Inkheart is itself so poorly thought through . 	Heavy on cliches and light on charm , this kid-lit fantasy-adventure does n't quite get off the ground .
1046060-high noon A film about what it means to be a man that manages to avoid the musk of machismo , High Noon is truly a film that improves with each and every viewing . One of top five westerns of all time w/Cooper 's Oscar winning role . Powerful . High Noon is n't really a masterpiece , and if you 're a fan of more honest Westerns , it 's hard not to notice Zinnemann 's general lack of interest throughout . But it is a tense , effective little film . Can be enjoyed simply because it 's so well done . ... plays on the psychology of its characters and situations ; an oater with insight and introspection ... thought over action . Generates claustrophobic suspense by focusing on three images : Kane 's increasingly tense , pained expression ; implacably ticking clocks ; and the ominous , empty train tracks . One of the most overestimated Westerns in film history , High Noon is schematic and more of a reflection of the times in which it was made than the classic it 's considered to be , though Gary Cooper and Grace Kelly are excellent . Drop-dead brilliant Western Noir . O primeiro filme a ensinar que um faroeste poderia ter densidade dramtica sem perder suas prprias caractersticas . One of the essentials 	A classic of the Western genre that broke with many of the traditions at the time , High Noon endures -- in no small part thanks to Gary Cooper 's defiant , Oscar-winning performance .
exorcist The overall film has a well-developed sense of atmosphere that most films of today are missing . Trendsetting shocker about a possessed child . William Friedkin 's adaptation of William Peter Blatty 's novel , with a screenplay by the author , is a dead-serious meditation on the struggle between good and evil . Arguably the most troubling factor is the lack of true redemption in the twist ending , which resolves the demon possession without allowing good to triumph over evil . If it failed on all other levels ( which it does n't ) , The Exorcist would nevertheless be an excellent family horror story . There is nothing dated about The Exorcist , which remains an effective excursion into demonic possession more than a quarter of a century after it was first unveiled to the public . When I first saw The Exorcist , I saw only the literal side of the story . But as I watched it again , I began to view the movie as a dark fairy tale about a parent whose child is experiencing a painful trauma . I loved it . The scariest movie I have ever seen . So scary , I refuse to watch it again . It never was a great film , but it 's still effective -- the 2000 version is nearer greatness 	The Exorcist rides its supernatural theme to magical effect , with remarkable special effects and an eerie atmosphere , resulting in one of the scariest films of all time .
pokemon-heroes Subjecting kids to such shoddy junk when they could be watching `Spirited Away ' or `Finding Nemo ' should count as cinematic child abuse . Grown-ups may have to scrub the sugar from their frontal lobes . But it 's not about them , is it ? Never was . Never will be . The result is impressive but does little to further the experience . The pied piper of shameless kiddie-marketing strikes for the fifth time in as many years . All that a piece of product like Pokemon Heroes will inspire is the urge to nap . A tedious , unimaginative affair . The story is also less violent and combative . If you think of it as the cinematic equivalent of a dental appointment that 's less painful than you 'd anticipated , you 'll have a fairly accurate notion of its quality . Surely a form of child abuse . Directors Kunihiko Yuyama and Jim Malone pull off a few striking visual effects . But it 's still a Pokemon movie . 	This series is n't getting any better .
wedding date Like a bridal shower , it 's probably more fun if you have some champagne first . Perhaps some enterprising theater manager will consider this . All surface and no soul . Come to think of it , the surface is n't so darned hot either . Following this botched ceremony , anyone fond of Debra Messing and Dermot Mulroney will be left standing at the altar in tears . It is in no way a match made in heaven . My Best Friend 's Picture Perfect Wedding , er , I mean The Wedding Date ... is surprisingly engaging -- mostly ... Mulroney is like a young Stallone - and he 's got half the acting ability to prove it . Scenes do n't build momentum , and I do n't think I 've ever seen a feature where so many lines of dialogue were delivered by actors hovering off-screen or standing with their backs to the camera . Yearn , dammit ! the movie screams at you , as you turn your eyes to the wristwatch and lament that , like Kat , you 've just wasted your money . The writing shows occasional wit and the performances are charming enough , but there is too much working against them . Debra Messing ... is a nightmarish golem-creature constructed , Frankenstein-monster style , from the worst stereotypes of modern femininity ... 	Critics are leaving The Wedding Date at the alter , calling it shopworn , bland , and lightweight .
kisses2008 The dialogue throughout this touching , though never sugary , film is delivered in the language of the streets and the performances from the two young stars are nothing short of remarkable . There 's nothing so frustrating as a small movie , made by a clearly gifted filmmaker , that flies close to magic only to be sternly jerked back to earth . The unknown child actors are appealing but Kisses tries too hard to pluck at the heartstrings . Both sweet and tough , with vivid characters and an unnerving sense of danger . It 's just a shame the plot was n't fleshed out more to enable a more complete cinematic experience , rather than a handful of inspired components . A minor work notable only for the strong performances of two non-professional actors . A coming-of-age drama so Irish you 'll want to take out your Pogues ' lyric sheets beforehand to brush up on Gaelic mumbling . A pedestrian picaresque that trivializes the suffering and yearnings of hardscrabble youth . Cute but foul-mouthed , tough but vulnerable and obviously crazy about each other in a reticent way , these kids are a wonderful presence , giving the most contrived scenes genuine emotion and a veneer of realness . Exquisitely-shot and deeply affecting with just the right balance of humor , sweetness and grittiness . Newcomers Kelly O'Neill and Shane Curry shine in raw , heartfelt and charismatic performances . 	Although admittedly sleight , this gritty but tender coming-of-age Irish drama features some impressive work both in front , and behind the camera .
elite squad A satisfactory enough cop movie , but not one that people will still be name checking years hence For nearly two hours , Padilha bombards viewers with senseless , sickening violence for its own sake . Padilha gets as close to the daily violence as City of God , though this feels more like a documentary than an epic . As for the plot , flashy editing and an over-reliance on jittery handheld cameras mean you 'll struggle to tell what 's going on - if you have n't already given up by then . An action-drama that 's fascinating for its insights into Rio 's social structures . But while it 's compellingly intense , it 's also morally muddled . With no star names and a tough subject , it will be hard sell despite being a runaway hit on its home turf . Trying to address important and serious social issues in this violent world rather than just creating something sensationalistic or exploitative gives Elite Squad an edge over normal police thrillers . A tough and realistic cop story that stays believable from beginning to end while delivering the truth about loyalty , courage and gut-wringing fear on an inner city military mission with no second chances . A film that simply does n't have enough cinematic flair to make it a better than average cops and robbers thriller . Elite Squad ca n't decide whether it wants to pull the lid back on what urban decay has wrought or simply open up a can of whup ass . 	Brutal , action heavy , Brazilian cop film with a pointless voiceover . Lacks flair , overdoes the violence and is never quite sure where its morals lie .
benhur Widescreen biblical epic is bloated with spectacle and thin on plot . Entire new frontiers in boredom were opened up by this MGM whopper from 1959 . Ben-Hur is not great art . But it is great fun . Awesome spectacle , unforgettable story , Heston 's best The kind of sweeping pseudo-biblical epic that Hollywood was famous for . If not for Heston 's weak performance and Boyd 's ludicrous one , the film might have been better . Opening with a full overture played against Michelangelo 's ceiling of the Sistine Chapel , you know that you 're in for something unembarrassed by its own grandiosity . A masterpiece of epic filmmaking , a profound religious experience and one of the greatest films ever made . A majestic achievement , representing a superb blending of the motion picture arts by master craftsmen . An entertaining and compelling drama that may be shallow , but is too exciting and appealing for that to be much of a concern . Although it is a spectacle film , the story of how a man takes on the tyranny of the Romans , with all sorts of horrible consequences to himself and his family , is powerful and gripping . 	Uneven , but in terms of epic scope and grand spectacle , Ben-Hur still ranks among Hollywood 's finest examples of pure entertainment .
of gods and men Beautifully expressed and measured , Men seizes a tumultuous state of mind with captivating cinematic control , making flashes of resistance and companionship all the more heartfelt and devastating . Una pelcula dura , hermosa y conmovedora sobre un episodio trgico que fue , ante todo , un acto de sacrificio y resistencia ante la violencia y el miedo . Desde ya , una de las fundamentales del ao . Director Xavier Beauvois keeps the drama hushed and expectant as the monks themselves . Beauvois shows respect for all of the characters and cultures involved -- the monks , the community they served , even the enemies that the monks remembered in their prayers . Uma obra comovente e respeitosa que faz jus aos homens que a inspiraram . [ A ] moving , elegantly made spiritual docudrama . The rare movie that treats religious commitment with respect and regards nonviolence as a legitimate , honorable response to brutality ... This is a deeply humane and compassionate film , frightening because we know the probable outcome but moving because it tells us , often in the quietest detail , what basic decency and goodness really means . A taut drama of bravery among the monks . I found myself resisting the film 's pull of easy emotion . There are fundamental questions here , and the film does n't engage them . 	Patient and restrained , Of Gods and Men asks deep , profound questions that will linger in the audience 's mind long after the movie .
final destination 3 The series has gotten to the point where there is now effectively Nothing to See Here . So lazily plotted and poorly written , one wonders why New Line did n't just release a half-hour version consisting of nothing but death scenes . This film is the least of the three : it lacks the novelty of the first film and the cleverly morbid humor of the second one . The Final Destination movies may be pointless and crass , but they play on that fascination with malicious efficiency , and 3 is no exception . To get to the good stuff , you have to sit through atrocious dialog , amateur acting , and a snail 's pace , and maybe there 's 15 minutes of good material here . You wo n't be scared one bit , but that 's not exactly the point here . The murder is the only message . If you have seen the first two Final Destination movies , you know what you are getting into . If you have n't seen the first two , why start now ? ... is n't for everyone , but those in the know who like their horror served up R-rated and over-the-top , Final Destination 3 delivers ... The movie gives you the fun and fright of a roller coaster , which is nice , since you may not be riding those anymore after watching this . The third time around is not the charm , but we can only hope this will be the FINAL final destination . 	Final Destination 3 is more of the same : gory and pointless , with nowhere new to go .
the wrestler Imagining someone other than the beatifically battered Mickey Rourke in the title role of The Wrestler would be like picturing someone other than John Malkovich in Being John Malkovich . Rourke creates a galvanizing , humorous , deeply moving portrait that instantly takes its place among the great , iconic screen performances . Topping off an outstanding production , director Darren Aronofsky 's ending to The Wrestler is sheer perfection . Despite the low-tech feel , The Wrestler is very tight and disciplined . The score is spare but effective , nothing is wasted in dialogue or action , and the fight choreography and stunts are incredible . Rourke is phenomenal . Aronofsky leaves it all on the mat with The Wrestler . Mickey Rourke plays the battered , broke , lonely hero , Randy ( 'The Ram ' ) Robinson . This is the performance of his lifetime , will win him a nomination , may win him the Oscar . It 's a wonderful , career-reviving performance , and you ca n't imagine the movie without him . Welcome back , Mickey . Rourke , in a role that could have invited outsized characterization , instead offers modesty and understatement . This small performance , in a small film , is by far the biggest of his career . This is a film that you have got to see . You wo n't be disappointed . Although suffering from a formulaic story , Mickey Rourke will make you believe that Randy 'The Ram ' Robinson really existed . 	Mickey Rourke gives a performance for the ages in The Wrestler , a richly affecting , heart-wrenching yet ultimately rewarding drama .
dope 2015 Dope does n't seem like it has much discipline or focus , but its frantic forward momentum and haphazard mixture of styles , although demonstratively entertaining , should n't distract from a rather pointed political message about race in America . Moore gives a performance layered with energy , and Famuyiwa 's direction is equally charismatic . The film feels off-kilter more often than not , though it is n't without its inspired , successful moments . The first half of Dope is grounded in infectious authenticity ; the second half is haphazard . It 's got a lot of heart , more than you 'd expect from a comedy and less than you 'd expect from a drama . That genre switching is its main failing , though . It 's refreshing for sure , but the movie is tonally erratic , leaving the viewer with a mixed message . Flawed but fresh , Dope revolves around an appealing cast Equal parts righteously pissed and anxious fun - a film to debate but only after you 've laughed your ass off . Dope is a smart if not hefty comedy by a filmmaker who has a lot to say and yet still much to learn . A fantastical , slight , and occasionally fun , hip hop-scored romp . 	Featuring a starmaking performance from Shameik Moore and a refreshingly original point of view from writer-director Rick Famuyiwa , Dope is smart , insightful entertainment .
boarding gate Though graced with a performance by the fascinating Asia Argento , this noir film is difficult to follow . [ Boarding Gate ] rocked me pretty hard . There are long , droning bouts of dialog about nothing meant to link scenes together , but all Boarding Gate really does is fixate on watching Asia Argento do stuff . [ Assayas ] has concocted a plot that is dizzying and annoying at times , and it 's hard to care about the characters in the shifting story . But B-movie veteran Argento 's portrayal of Sandra is like watching a car careening down an incline . The plot may be murky , but actress Asia Argento is a clear and commanding force throughout . Boarding Gate plays with various genre codes and conventions very differently than most run-of-the-mill modern thrillers . Riveting to watch largely due to Asia Argento 's presence , Assayas ' new film , suitably placed at the Midnight Section , displays visual fluency and other innovative devices deiberately applied to a lower-level subject that some will dismiss as trash . Boring gate . This hypnotic , angular thriller about sex , murder , betrayal and money takes you on a feverish journey from nowhere to somewhere . We do n't want to see Asia Argento talking about her history of drugs and wild sex , we want to see her doing it . 	Boarding Gate has little substance beneath its faux-thriller surface , and marks a step down from director Olivier Assayas ' usual work .
transformers the movie Is it a commercial or an action movie ? You could go either way with `` Transformers . '' The script may have rubbery legs , but the action is rock-hard . The surprise is the lightness of touch : treat as a comedy for best results . Bay and an army of visual designers have successfully re-imagined a photorealistic world in which these Titans can believably clash . Every time Transformers threatens to collapse under the weight of its ridiculous plot and boring characters , Bay and his team pull a visual trick that will blow many summer movie fan 's minds . It is a teenage boy 's wet dream . The girls are insanely hot , the lead is awkward/funny and the action sequences are top notch . Flat , loud , flashy spectacle that 's been fine-tuned and sanded down to appeal to the widest global audience possible . All in all , pretty generic . We knew it would be dumb . But we had no idea it would be so much dumb fun . I challenge you to name another movie about an alien robot come to save the world while disguised as a yellow Camaro . Is n't it just an intergalactic Herbie the Love Bug ? Without expectations I could sit back and enjoy the updated computer- generated nostalgia for what it was . Declaring his absolute judgment and the intrinsic virtue of bringing democracy to all planets , Optimus Prime announces , `` Freedom is the right of all sentient beings . '' Except , of course , the Decepticons . 	While believable characters are hard to come by in Transformers , the effects are staggering and the action is exhilarating .
1003033-brazil Brilliant all around ; Gilliam at his peak The bleak Brazil reaches for greatness but just falls short . Not in everybody 's taste , but why risk missing one of the most brilliant science fiction movies ever made ? Hollywood is notoriously plagued by commercial incentive and a lack of art ; Brazil is a rare success , particularly so because it is decidedly anti-commercial . Very hard to follow . Brazil -- a black comedy that remains ahead of its time -- is one of the most audacious fantasies ever made . It has visual style and imagination to burn , but it 's the ideas behind it that make it a modern classic.. Celebrates imagination as the only escape from a bleak , ridiculous , and troubled world . Everything that Terry Gilliam does seems to come in a peak . His movies tend to be a series of exhilarating , madding high points , and his method of dazzle can be exhausting and exasperating . But you never want him to stop . For all its occasional long-windedness and visual dazzle , Brazil may be the Strangelove of the 1980s . 	Brazil , Terry Gilliam 's visionary Orwellian fantasy , is an audacious dark comedy , filled with strange , imaginative visuals .
birdcage This feel-good family comedy with a twist is based on the 1978 French film La Cage aux Folles . [ Not ] nearly as funny as it has been made out to be . An American remake with plenty of new pizazz . A bit of a letdown in some ways , The Birdcage nonetheless features some scene-stealing performances . Birdcage does a remarkably good job of delivering a movie that puts its own decided spin on the tale . The beauty of The Birdcage is that its jokes and its message are one and the same . These characters could n't change themselves if they tried . And only a fool would want them to . Broad and fairly belabored , but Williams ' ceaseless energy , Hackman 's dry wit , and Azaria 's insanity save the day . The result is a nearly flavorless 118 minutes punctuated with a few hilarious scenes -- mostly owed to the physical comedy of stage actor Nathan Lane . What makes Mike Nichols ' version more than just a retread is good casting in the key roles , and a wicked screenplay by Elaine May , who keeps the original story but adds little zingers here and there . If you like to laugh and laugh hard , do n't miss this one . It 's a genuine hoot . 	Mike Nichols wrangles agreeably amusing performances from Robin Williams and Nathan Lane in this fun , if not quite essential , remake of the French comedy La Cage aux Folles .
up in the air 2009 Farmiga matches Clooney 's rhythms perfectly , and watching these two glossy creatures circle and parry is one of the great cinematic pleasures of the year . Boasting solid performances , this is a movie of the moment , but might be too close to home for some viewers . It 's Reitman 's whip-smart script , well-developed characters , and keen use of his actors that ultimately makes Up in the Air the highly entertaining modern American classic that it is . Up in the Air often looks like an American Airlines commercial , and I would n't call it a feel-good movie per se , but there 's a certain satisfaction watching two snappy , beautiful people at the top of their form . Great cast , smart writing , and a timely but touchy storyline make Up in the Air a film you wo n't forget about the moment you leave the theater . One of the year 's very best films from one of Hollywood 's very best young directors . This is a great story well told , thanks to a deft script and brilliant performances . Life 's Contradictions are Up in the Air . [ Its ] themes are n't necessarily original , but Up in the Air knows how to package them well , adultly , soberly , with its dependable script and performances . Clooney is perfect , nothing more be said . `` Up in the Air '' is the best film of the year : smart , funny and well-directed . Get connected with this film , it 's worth it . Paul Chambers , CNN . 	Led by charismatic performances by its three leads , director Jason Reitman delivers a smart blend of humor and emotion with just enough edge for mainstream audiences .
1017712-robocop an extremely well-made , often humorous comic book revenge fantasy with an underlying subtext of constant satirical jabs at American corporate domination Smart , satirical and nefariously vicious , this is easily one of the finest sci-fi flicks of the 1980s . The plot is supremely cliched . As the years pass , RoboCop seems more prescient than ever . Like the tormented figure at its center , this movie combines the mechanical with the human . And though much of the film is made up of spare parts from cop shows , exploitation flicks and comic books , it nevertheless comes to life . Whatever may have been in the minds of the writers , Edward Neumeier and Michael Miner , has more trouble emerging from Mr. Verhoeven 's sizzling battles than poor Murphy does from his robosuit . Robocop may sound like another bubble-gum science fiction techno-blaster , but it`s more than that . Don`t let the title fool you . There 's a brooding , agonized quality to the violence that almost seems subversive , as if Verhoeven were both appalled and fascinated by his complicity in the toxic action rot . Though extremely violent , Robocop showcases an invigorating style even in its goriest scenes . Paul Verhoeven makes every scene sparkle with tilted angles , oddball twists , and special-effects wonders . The 25-year-old flick still feels as if it was made tomorrow . 	While over-the-top and gory , Robocop is also a surprisingly smart sci-fi flick that uses ultraviolence to disguise its satire of American culture .
spirited away Spirited Away is every bit as captivating for its sheer graphic power as it is for its message of go-get-'em-girl power . Miyazaki , the master animator and director of the enchanting Kiki 's Delivery Service and Princess Mononoke , leads us through the looking glass as never before in Spirited Away . Far and away the best film I 've seen this year . Prepare to be Spirited Away by this amazing animated film . A two-hour feast of visual imagination , consistently rendered at the highest level of graphic art . Spirited Away has the quality of a dream : It takes you places so foreign and fantastic you have no option but to yield completely to it and be spirited along . Initially seems like a Through the Looking-Glass fantasy , but rapidly picks up a resonance , weight and complexity that make it all but Shakespearean . One of [ Miyazaki 's ] finest . Watching Spirited Away is like watching an Eastern imagination explode . A must-see for Japanamation fans , anyone familiar with Japanese folklore , or anyone sick of the boring stories that typically accompany American animation . 	Spirited Away is a dazzling , enchanting , and gorgeously drawn fairy tale that will leave viewers a little more curious and fascinated by the world around them .
inside man Inside Man offers an intriguing yarn that explores power and ethnicity with snappy humor . Lee has created a truly original film from various shopworn genre clich , chief among them , the New York City bank heist/hostage standoff gone awry . Um filme tenso e intrigante que , alm de contar com personagens interessantes , confere cores novas ao surrado subgnero `` assalto a banco '' . The basic story is elemental , but because Lee and Gewirtz invest it with grit , comedy , and a ton of New York ethnic personality , it 's fresh anyway . Retains all the elements of a solid caper film , basked in the smarts of a decades old police procedural and leaves us with something greater than forced twists and shoot-outs . With a few notable exceptions , there 's little of Mr. Lee 's trademark style anywhere to be seen . And he is sorely missed . Not even viewers will understand the scope of the robbery until the final minutes of the film , which is a tribute to [ director Spike ] Lee and first-time screenwriter Russell Gewirtz . Everyone is acting in a different film , and not one of them is in a Spike Lee Joint . But it 's such a consistent oddity that it 's never fighting to hold our attention . The filmmaker seems to be patting himself on the back for being so smart to put this heist pic over without playing by the rules of the genre . Lee lends tremendous energy to this tale of criminals who take over a New York City bank . 	Spike Lee 's energetic and clever bank-heist thriller is a smart genre film that is not only rewarding on its own terms , but manages to subvert its pulpy trappings with wit and skill -- and Denzel Washington is terrific as a brilliant hostage negotiator .
bruce almighty One gets the feeling that for a movie star like Carrey , being God is a lateral move at best . One idea stretched thin . Even Jim Carrey , whose mere presence can often liven up a film lacking in luster , ca n't save the almighty turkey that is `` Bruce Almighty . '' At the end of the day , Carrey is far more palatable and sincere under a devil 's mask than a cardboard halo . So funny I seriously thought I was going to fall out of my chair . Bruce Almighty is the kind of movie that Jim Carrey should stick to . There 's remarkably little done with a premise snatched from high-concept heaven , adding yet another file to the growing cabinet of under-realized comedies . Where The Truman Show delivered its sermon on Calvinism in modern times with humor , humanity , and grace ; Bruce Almighty tries to same with cheap sentiment and cheaper jokes . Because there 's always been a megalomaniac lurking inside Carrey 's manic personality , it 's funny to see him literally play God . Jim Carrey may be unconvincing as a TV newsman ... but as an everyday joe temporarily granted all God 's powers , his return to crackpot comedy is a welcome summer movie treat . 	Carrey is hilarious in the slapstick scenes , but Bruce Almighty gets bogged down in treacle .
conversations with other women Brian DePalma 's Before Sunset . Conversations with Other Women feels like a one-act play stretched into a feature film and padded with those visual gimmicks . The film is technically brilliant but emotionally shallow ; take away the split screen gimmick , and you have a romantic drama that would n't be worth its running time . Hans Canosa 's studied debut feature stars Aaron Eckhart and Helena Bonham Carter as old flames who meet , years after parting , and have a short fling . You spend more time watching the technique than the interplay between Carter and Eckhart . There 's a reason Before Sunrise and Before Sunset were done as two movies , not one . The charm of Conversations With Other Women , a gimmicky but oddly moving two-character drama that flies in from who knows where , is its intelligent knowingness . I was hooked to the screen , to the film 's sense of time and place and risk , to the intelligence of the talk and the intimations of pleasure and regret in Bonham Carter 's performance . An unconventional love story about a couple who try to recapture the enchantment of their long-ago relationship and learn they have to let go with equanimity in middle age . ... although infused with a number of truthful moments and an awfully romantic atmosphere , director Hans Canosa 's use of split-screen remains a distraction throughout the film 's admittedly brisk running time . 	Its occasional use of split screen may feel gimmicky at times , but Conversations With Other Women is a bold , inventive drama carried by its two charismatic leads .
paul An agreeable comedy that is likely to be over-inflated to masterpiece status by fanboys . A movie that knows exactly what it is and never tries to overreach . This is an unapologetic goofball romp , nothing more , nothing less Packed with sci-fi in-jokes , the picture is more gently amusing than hilarious and the characters , while likeable , are hardly the most fascinating or complex . Although Superbad 's Greg Mottola does n't have the firm directorial grip of the pair 's usual collaborator , Edgar Wright , for the most part this is a far-out , funny ride . Paul is n't as riotous as the early Pegg and Frost movies , but it does have a certain sweetness . Everyone in it is sort of innocent , except Paul , the alien wisecracker . It 's likeable , if uneven , rather than hilarious . A refreshingly rollicking , sweetly raunchy comedy about a little green dude just trying to get home . Paul is offensive solely for being so underachieving . It 's not a bad film by any means , it was just slightly disappointing especially when you take into account the talents of Pegg and Frost . Because of the lethargic pace , cheeky jokes become positively jowly . And the easy lampoons of rednecks and bible thumpers beg to be called `` Close Encounters of the secondhand . '' [ I ] t 's a sendup done with real affection and with the odd notion that those advanced aliens may be just as big a bunch of goofballs as we are . 	It does n't measure up to Pegg and Frost 's best work , but Paul is an amiably entertaining -- albeit uneven -- road trip comedy with an intergalactic twist .
travelers and magicians Norbu ( The Cup ) shifts smoothly between a kind of Buddhist The Postman Always Rings Twice and depicting the bonds that form among Dondup and his companions . For Norbu , filmmaking has become his form of thangka painting An unusual road movie featuring gorgeous atmospherics , the film is memorable indeed . It 's transporting , it 's magical . Visually accomplished and loads of fun . That [ director ] Norbu elicits believable and fully developed characters out of his cast of non-actors is all the more impressive . A film so enchanting one hates to see it come to an end . All Norbu 's posturing for a greater spiritual meaning never materialized , though it still looms as an assured work . Acknowledge the timeless , universal human question of whether to stay in the dull , safe place you know or take a chance in a wider , scarier , potentially more rewarding world . The Himalayan scenery , majestic mountains , and verdant valleys are as breathtaking and well-shot as one could hope for . 	Interwined tales of spiritual discovery are set against a gorgeous , evocative landscape in this pleasant , engaging import .
dawn of the dead A gross-out horror flick that reveals a total contempt for human life and ends on a predictable note of cynicism . Shame on all involved . Director Zack Snyder and writer James Gunn have simply traded one set of time-sensitive issues for more contemporary cliches . What screenwriter James Gunn and director Zach Snyder have ignored was the subversive , satirical touches Romero infused among all the gross carnage . A terrifying , perfectly executed piece of grade-A horror that transcends its genre roots even as it resolutely nourishes them . Truly worthy of that famous title . reimagining the zombies as fast , proactive attackers makes for some truly scary horror , but it also deprives the film of the nuance Romero was able to instill in his zombies The good news for fans of the mindless flesh-eaters is that the reworked Dawn , while a far more generic piece of entertainment in many ways , still delivers a pretty mean bite as a gross-out/action shockfest . When there 's no more room in hell , the dead and dumb take over Hollywood and make movies like this Romero 's satire is largely replaced by a sardonic gallows humor ... but otherwise it 's a bloody entertaining zombie apocalypse . 	A kinetic , violent and surprisingly worthy remake of George Romero 's horror classic that pays homage to the original while working on its own terms .
harry potter and the chamber of secrets Columbus overcomes several of the first film 's problems with this much darker , slightly more edgy sequel . Proof once again that if the filmmakers just follow the books , they ca n't go wrong . Better effects , better acting and a hilarious Kenneth Branagh . An excellent sequel . Not great , but worth seeing . This is a vastly superior movie , capturing all the things that I felt were missing from the first . Back is Chris Columbus , whose direction this time around has a purposely darker , more ominous look . Los Pottermanacos estn de fiesta . The second film to spring forth from J.K. Rowling 's popular series of children 's books goes a long way towards amping up the dramatic tension promised by the source material . Sequentially and tonally , it 's so derivative of the last movie that it not only fails to build upon its predecessor , it 's stuck covering the very same ground . Most viewers , especially the younger ones , will reap its joys . Chamber Of Secrets is funnier and more exciting than the first Harry Potter movie , and adorned with some of the most stunning special effects ever . 	Though perhaps more enchanting for younger audiences , Chamber of Secrets is nevertheless both darker and livelier than its predecessor , expanding and improving upon the first film 's universe .
city of god Part Godfather , part Lord of the Flies , City of God stings with a jolt of uncontrolled rage . Directed in a sort of urban panoramic style , City of God is , much more than Gangs of New York , a telling and intelligent snapshot of clashing turf warfare and how it constrictively shapes and molds the urban underbelly of a city . Long and difficult to watch , but it is never dull . Fearless and blistering . A dazzling film with deeply disturbing images . It is a great story that is told well on film . There 's a seldom-seen passion and a grittiness in this film that educates , entertains and terrifies . If the first five minutes of God do n't suck you in , it 's time to scoop out your eyes and get new ones . It is certainly one of the best movies of the year ; it may even be as good as Meirelles imagined it could be . The film is as slick as any Hollywood thriller ... that dilute the impact of what might have been an indelible cautionary tale . 	A shocking and disturbing , but always compelling look at life in the slums of Rio de Janiero .
chalet girl With its down to earth heroine ... the film underplays the triumph of the spirit theme , while delivering a satisfying , textured experience This is a very benign comedy that is elevated by the completely natural performance of Felicity Jones . The dialogue is more sensible than the plotting , allowing us to forgive the film 's more serious trespasses . Pleasant if timid ... Pursues its way to its feelgood conclusion with just a little wit and a goodly lump of sentiment . Hugely enjoyable feel-good British romcom , enlivened by a witty script , a terrific central performance from Felicity Jones , a superb ensemble cast and an infectious sense of fun . Unashamedly aiming at a teenage audience , the film 's lack of pretension is oddly refreshing Chalet Girl comes as a breath of fresh , Alpine air in that it 's a very British , no-nonsense story of a working class girl who falls for her posh employer . Snow , snowboarders , apres ski , hot chocolate mit schlag - what 's not to like ? The picture stays just about upright thanks to the toothsome loveliness of Felicity Jones , who 's 28 but looks about 15 . Her fresh charm and pert line-readings brighten the routine comedy of pitfalls and pratfalls . 	Chalet Girl is light comedic fun geared for teenage girls , featuring a charming performance from Felicity Jones .
my own private idaho Inventive depiction of the universal quest for home . a high-water mark in '90s independent film Although River Phoenix has distinguished himself as an actor ever since his second film , Stand By Me , nothing he has ever done before prepares you for his performance in Private Idaho as the motherless , homeless , loveless piece of human driftwood . Even though it falters toward the end , it soars above the fray . Van Sant takes a lot of chances , and , visually , the movie is so imaginative , so fiercely alive , that it carries us along . But when the over-all design of the picture becomes clear , we feel cheated rather than enlightened . My Own Private Idaho lacks the dramatic punchiness of Drugstore Cowboy , yet it 's a rich , audacious experience . Apparently Van Sant believed the reviews anointing him as a genius , and this time he has cheekily dared comparisons with the Bard of Stratford . Holding all these elements together is Van Sant 's sensibility , such an elusive thing it instinctively squirms away from any attempt to pigeonhole it . One of Van Sant 's best films , a richly dense , poetic evocation of friendhsip that retells Shakespeare 's Henry IV in an original and intriguing way ; River Phoenix gives his most riveting performance . Audacious , controversial , directional , important and totally unique , you 'll either love it or hate it . But see it ! 	A tantalizing glimpse of a talented director and his stars all at the top of their respective games , Gus Van Sant 's loose reworking of Henry IV is smart , sad and audacious .
the man on the train This one 's a keeper . The film ultimately seems more like an idea than a complete story , bereft of any narrative spine on which to hang the ideas . Fans of the subtitled , the offbeat and the intimate should n't miss this Train . The movie 's slow pace and gentle humor pay off in a pounding cross-cutting between the heist and the surgery , as well as a transcendent ending that is as rewarding as it is ambiguous . A triumph of moviemaking , where simplicity rules and emotions get expressed through humor , pathos and moments of surprisingly tenderness . The movie has the kind of texture and depth that will make true movie-lovers sigh with the pure cinematic , human grace of it all . Might not be the manliest way to make a buddy movie , but it makes for a great movie about being a man . Watching Hallyday 's Lee Van Cleef-esque mien , one longs for the return of the Spaghetti Western ... A movie that 's slow , reflective , full of resignation toward death and small ironies about life . In the end , because he refuses to compromise their fates , director Patrice Leconte manages a kind of sweet tragedy rarely attempted in American films . 	A lovely , contemplative character study with two wonderful performances at its center .
10008760-what happens in vegas Wants to be liked so badly it 's afraid to do anything that might actually make you respect it in the morning . In that sense , it works . It 's a 99-minute PG-13 airplane movie good for a few chuckles and another notch on Rob Corddry 's widening comedy belt . The plot is both feeble and ridiculous , but this still delivers more than its fair share of laughs , thanks to terrific comic performances from Kutcher , Diaz and supporting players Rob Corddry and Lake Bell . Hardly a massive gamble , Cameron Diaz and Ashton Kutcher play a safe romcom hand you can tolerate . Ashton Kutcher and Cameron Diaz hate on each other with dynamite verve in What Happens in Vegas . I am so tired of these miserable things that pass for romantic comedies these days , thoughtless assembly-line products that recycle the same components in ever-dumber packaging over and over again . There are no big surprises , and only a handful of unexpected developments . But Kutcher and Diaz are undeniably appealing ... nd the scene-stealing supporting players ... go about their petty larceny with amusing adroitness . You 'd think the combination of Diaz , Kutcher and Vegas would be good for at least a little sexy , silly fun . But do n't bet on it . Kutcher and Diaz both make good with what they have , but they deserve better . As far fetched as the idea of guy disgust as the ultimate aphrodisiac may seem , Cameron and Ashton as the designated lovebirds keep the kinky marriage shocks and surprises coming . Move over Knocked Up . A Sex And The Sin City Vegas jackpot . At least they party harder than the 21 kids . 	What Happens in Vegas has a few laughs , but mostly settles for derivative romantic comedy conventions and receives little help from a pair of unlikable leads .
paranoid park It may not score with a mass audience , but in museums and art centers around the world , it will always be in rotation . It may be time for Van Sant to remove his head from -- well , let 's call it the underground -- and re-find his inner Forrester . Through immaculate use of picture , sound and time , the director adds another panel to his series of pictures about disaffected , disconnected youth . [ The narrative is ] as speedy and graceful as the skateboarders it lingers over in Paranoid Park , where their daredevil moves are often shot in dreamily beautiful slow motion . The movie does n't narrate what happened so much as immerse itself in Alex 's numb state of alienation and denial , which I did n't find quite as rewarding as I guess I was supposed to . The third , most technically accomplished panel in a youth trilogy that began with Elephant and continued with Last Days , finds Van Sant , American cinema 's most dedicated chronicler of disaffected youths , in top form . Elephant said much more about teenagers and said it better . Stands at the midway point in its auteur 's recent filmography , displaying both the strengths and weaknesses of his recent stylistic choices . A troubling and sad portrait of a teenager who refuses to take moral responsibility for his actions . It 's a movie worth seeing . 	Director Gus Van Sant once again superbly captures the ins and outs of teenage life in Paranoid Park , a quietly devastating portrait of a young man living with guilt and anxiety .
confessions of a teenage drama queen Much like The O.C . has taken the place of Beverly Hills 90210 , this latest Lindsay Lohan Disney comedy tries to mine the territory vacated by Hilary Duff . ... film pimps to is core demographic and gives nothing substantial in return . Bland , warmed over genre cliches masquerading as a movie . For the most part the material is stubbornly inert , and the actors at times appear to be flailing . A word to the wise : If you find the title tantalizing , you 'll probably love the film . A creative no man 's land : nothing ventured , nothing gained , nothing worth watching . What teenage girl would enjoy watching this ? I 'm glad Disney addresses this oft-ignored demographic , but if these girls are pandered to so obviously , wo n't they feel insulted ? Supported by Lindsay Lohan 's effervescent performance , Drama Queen has a fun flair for the dramatics but ultimately is a piece of fluff targeted to a limited audience . Would that this film were as pulled together as Lola 's fabulous outfits . Talk about drama - oh ! The horror . 	Sloppily assembled fluff that wo n't have much of interest for anyone who is n't a preteen girl .
hollywoodland Starts with artful delusions before dribbling into nothingness Worthwhile for the amusement of the escape to a bygone era alone . But when you factor in an absorbing pulp fiction plotline , you 've got all you can ask of a cinematic experience . Tells this tale with energy and panache . Middle-aged angst - and not the mystery of Reeves ' unsolved death - lies at the heart of Hollywoodland . Stark , probing and beautifully crafted , Hollywoodland is a slow-burning mystery/thriller that intriguingly jumps along with each suspenseful frame . Frustratingly ambiguous as a thriller , Coulter 's strong debut should be approached as a disturbing parable on the nature of fame . Despite a stellar cast , Coulter and screenwriter Paul Bernbaum cant decide whether to plumb the depths of 'noir ' or tug at the heartstrings of failed ambition . It is not just that people die in the film , its the way their souls get mauled while they are still alive . It 's worth seeing for Affleck alone , deftly communicating the distance between the put-on cardboard debonairness of this hunk-about-town and the gnawing uncertainties beneath his Superman outfit . every bit as ambitious , if never as flawed , as the characters it portrays . 	More than a movie star murder mystery , Hollywoodland takes it slow in order to reveal the intriguing details of the rise and fall of superstar fame .
1159618-superhero While by no means a masterpiece , when Craig Mazin riffs on the `` Spider-Man '' trilogy , `` Superhero Movie '' is cause for some occasional chuckles ... Contrary to popular belief , it does take a level of talent to tell puke and fart jokes well , and that seems to be one of Craig Mazin 's talent , for whatever it 's worth . 70 minutes of good if unmemorable fun sure beats 80 or 90 minutes of excruciating parodies for dummies , a la Date Movie and Epic Movie . A joke that 's underdeveloped and overextended ... not one of the worst examples of this tired genre , but far from the best . There 's honestly not a single laugh in the film , unless the mere mention or sight of shit , piss and puke is hilarious to you . The film 's weakest moments are also its timeliest . Prefers physical comedy over idiotic references to other movies , so it 's consistently , harmlessly stupid rather than soul-crushingly annoying . To call Superhero Movie a satire , or even a parody , of the genre specified in its title would be misleading , since those terms imply at least an attempt at wit . But no real mockery is intended by this mindless grab bag of slightly used gags . Writer-director and Scary Movie vet Craig Mazin 's script is so devoid of anything even remotely funny that the movie is more a cheap rip-off of Sam Raimi 's Spider-Man franchise than a spoof . Pamela Anderson appears for 15 seconds as the Invisible Woman ... and if Anderson is invisible she 's pretty much completely useless . 	Superhero Movie is not the worst of the spoof genre , but relies on tired gags and lame pop culture references all the same .
starsky and hutch A three-decade-old waste of time . Todd Phillips is the succubus of filmmakers . I can only assume that 's how he keeps getting jobs . By giving them . Who could have anticipated that Snoop would be the saving grace of a major studio buddy flick ? Serious fans of the old show may rightly feel one of their favorite childhood dreams has been violated . Those with no emotional investment , however , will probably find it an enjoyably absurd , if instantly forgettable , satire of '70s TV-cop extravagances . Starsky knows exactly what it is and has fun with it . Though there are a few chuckles to be had - mostly thanks to Vaughn 's hilariously over-the-top performance - the film is curiously lacking in the guffaws department . More of a spoof than a stand-alone comedy , film barely moves beyond the 70s hair and clothes , delivering a flat and not particularly funny picture . Shame . Diverting retread . ... Director Todd Phillips ( Road Trip , Old School ) proves once again that he has a hand for feel-good comedies . It 's probably a hoot for fans of the show . It definitely captures the atmosphere , but it does n't work as a great cop-buddy picture . I laughed , but lost interest in the story . 	It 's uneven and occasionally somewhat aimless , but Starsky & Hutch benefits from Stiller and Wilson 's chemistry and a surprisingly warm-hearted script .
saw ii An utterly sadistic horror picture that exists for no other reason and has no discernible point apart from getting horror fans to shell out a few bucks . Saw II is bound to give fans of the original a real buzz . ... a sequel that shows some of the same boldness and intellect of the first one . Unable to deliver the single novel concept or unexpected surprise that might justify its existence . By referencing horror masters Dario Argento and Wes Craven , the film invites comparison to much better movies , [ with ] none of Argento 's style or Craven 's savagely sardonic of sense of humor . By no means a masterpiece of the genre , but it 's a slickly made picture that more than delivers on the promise made on its poster -- oh yes , there will be blood . It was like finding the peanut butter cup in a sea of Mounds bars . [ T ] he earnest message-ification ... vies with the meaningless and sadistic violence as the most stomach-turning aspect of the flick . It 's not slick , it 's not empowering , and it 's not pretty . But what it does -- efficiently exploiting our primal fears -- it does pretty well . ... the bad news is that there 's less ( Jigsaw ) innovation ... the good news is there 's no crying Cary Elwes . 	Saw II is likely to please the gore-happy fans of the original , though it may be too gruesome for those not familiar with first film 's premise .
fistful of dollars Though far from perfected in this film , Leone 's style would mature through his next two films . A classic of cinema , and is somtimes underrated when people refer to westerns . The one that started it all . A classic Western ! Very entertaining . If Eastwood gives you a buzz , by all means lap this up . It 's a lot of fun , without a lot of thought required . Call me a heathen , but this has never been one of my favorite spaghetti Westerns . Awesome . Guns galore in intro `` spaghetti Western '' serving . The film is a no message one , but where violence is glorified by the hero who is as amoral as the villains . Though far less operatic and satisfying than Leone 's later work , his first spaghetti Western with Eastwood still looks stylish , if a little rough at the edges . 	With Akira Kurosawa 's Yojimbo as his template , Sergio Leone 's A Fistful of Dollars helped define a new era for the Western and usher in its most iconic star , Clint Eastwood .
1194949-wolfman Just in time for Valentine 's Day . Apparently , nothing says `` I love you '' more than a big hairy werewolf biting somebody 's head off . Like buffalo meat , The Wolfman is a little too lean for its own good . The only thing scary about Joe Johnston 's The Wolfman is that it exists . The fact that people , nay professionals , spent several years working on this picture genuinely upsets me . Gledatelje % u010Deka dobar % u017Eanrovski proizvod kojeg krasi iskusna gluma % u010Dka ekipa , vrlo dobro predo % u010Dena atmosfera goti % u010Dkog horora te dobri specijalni efekti Neither as bad as you 've probably heard , nor is it anywhere near as good as I might have hoped . Digital delirium makes up for lack of plot novelty . While this Wolfman redo certainly does n't live up to its 1941 predecessor , it serves its purpose . That is , if you like a somewhat dull , Gothic story that only gets exciting once the guy grows hair and big teeth . It feels rushed , meddled with ; like a film whose ambitions were crushed in the editing room . Wisually stylish and initially suspenseful , but too unevenly paced while deficient in surprises , imagination and palpable thrills . The Wolfman more closely resembles a slasher flick with an A-list cast than the Universal horror cycle that it derives from . 	Suitably grand and special effects-laden , The Wolfman suffers from a suspense-deficient script and a surprising lack of genuine chills .
saw 4 Those of us who quickly tired of the grisly fun and games midway through Saw II will resent the unnecessarily convoluted plotting and storylines that require a master 's degree in Saw studies to make any sense . The series has essentially become a shell game , entertaining for a while if you can stomach the gore , and then the credits roll and you 're pretty sure you 've been cheated somehow . There 's more gore in store . Now here 's `` Saw IV . '' Over the course of [ its ] sequels , the Saw franchise took a novel , if distasteful , idea and basically tortured it to death . If it ever had a prime , the Saw franchise is well past it ... a mess ... and an ugly mess at that . As far as fourth installments in a series , Saw IV is quite impressive . There 's the obligatory twist at the end , which hardly makes up for the excruciating boredom viewers are forced to endure . But , hey , if you 're paying for torture , expect to suffer . Outro tpico exemplar da srie : o final , como de hbito , at engenhoso , mas a frmula cada vez mais desgastada exige pacincia at que cheguemos a ele . Jigsaw is an interesting character with an interesting worldview and an interesting way of carrying out his will . It 's too bad the movies themselves are n't worthy of him . Poor Jigsaw . The architect of the most deadly traps ever committed to celluloid has endured inoperable cancer , a debilitating car crash and even the premature death of his son , but nothing as painful or degrading as 'Saw IV . ' 	Saw IV is more disturbing than compelling , with material already seen in the prior installments .
in and out In & Out is the screwball Philadelphia , a movie that contorts itself in order to indulge and then whitewash the core audience 's perceived homophobia . No um filme excepcional , mas consegue fazer rir . Paul Rudnick has written scenes that will go down as classics . [ Delivers ] laughs and skewer a few stereotypes , thanks to extremely sly wit and a fine cast . Oh , what a swell movie we have with In & Out . The clever screenwriter Paul Rudnick cooks up a solid script that 's both wildly funny and gently satirical . In And Out is one comedy that truly deserves respect . A man questioning his own sexuality does not seem like the ideal topic for a comedy . But with a good script , and plenty of humor , In & Out tackles this touchy subject matter with aplomb . Overall , it is n't bad , but it is disappointing . Basically a one-joke farce that plays around with a once-delicate subject that by now is a mainstay even on TV . 	It does n't always find comfortable ground between broad comedy and social commentary , but lively performances -- especially from Kevin Kline and Joan Cusack -- enrich In & Out 's mixture of laughs and sexual tolerance .
hubble 3d The daring mission by astronauts to repair and upgrade the Hubble Space Telescope in May 2009 is the perfect subject for a brilliant , thrilling 3-D Imax movie . Such a movie , alas , has yet to be made . Contains some of the most spectacular 3-D footage I 've ever seen ... Dazzling to look at of course . But such ponderous , clich-heavy narration . The IMAX screen is the ultimate planetarium in the awesome documentary Hubble 3D . Space lands on Earth in 3-D glory in this kid-friendly docu . Star gazing with Leonardo DiCaprio is an awesome out of this world experience . On the giant Imax screen in breathtaking 3D , this is probably the closest you or I will ever come to space travel A wonderful film for anyone who still has a passion for watching the skies and wondering what 's out there . If you want an eye-popping cosmic epic , rent Star Trek . If you want interactivity , take the kids to the planetarium . A zero-gravity repair job does n't sound like a thrilling cinematic spectacle , but this 43-minute film is utterly gripping . Audiences expecting a blissout of swirling galaxies will wonder why so much time is spent on astronauts sweating over screws and bolts . 	Offering a stunning , expansive viewing experience , Hubble 3D takes advantage of IMAX and 3-D technology like no other film .
election Production , set , costume and photography all help give the film a crisp look , capturing the inherent mid-western feel provided by the Omaha , Nebraska locale . Reese Witherspoon is proving to be one of the most versatile actresses of her generation . You 've got to laugh at Witherspoon 's tightly wound Little Miss Perfect , rising at dawn to do her hair and encase herself in a preppy look before baking cupcakes to pass out at school as vote-getters in her campaign for student council president . The satire of the season , a hilarious , razor-sharp indictment of the American Dream ! Election is director Alexander Payne 's ( Citizen Ruth ) cynical satire of the American schools and the electoral process . A satirical scalpel that refuses to let you know exactly when or whom it 's going to cut . Payne understands satire and possesses an innate ability to go for the jugular but sometimes his deft and subcutaneous touch is too uncomfortable . As Tracy Flick , Witherspoon perfectly tows the line between cute and irritating . ... a surprisingly compelling piece of work.. Payne and Taylor are equal opportunity satirists and their sly wit dismantles everything from high school culture to suburban complacency . 	Election successfully combines dark humor and intelligent writing in this very witty and enjoyable film .
rivers and tides andy goldsworthy working with time If you 're going to see Rivers and Tides , do n't think of it as going to the movies . Think of it as a visit to an art gallery . Watching this movie is like daydreaming . The trouble with this art movie is that it 's more a movie than it 's art . It 's a plaintive , poetic and beautiful explanation of an artist at work . [ Goldsworthy 's ] art is meant to be evanescent , like the nature he reveres . We are privileged to see it documented by the filmmaker 's camera . Riedelsheimer constructs staunch compositions using a photographer 's eye as good as Goldsworthy 's , of which truly focus on the art and the artist 's persistence and creativity . Watching Goldsworthy painstakingly piece together his artwork , we come to realize that his artistry lies as much in the act of creation as in the fleeting final product . [ It 's ] not only a tribute to Goldsworthy 's work but also a kind of animated gallery -- a showcase for a uniquely elusive art . Very few art documentaries are as deeply in tune with the spirit of their subjects , and the implications are enormous , since Goldsworthy is the rare contemporary art star whose work ( what a radical notion ) is actually about something . Beautiful photographt contextualizes his ephemeral artwork ; but shows us little of the `` crazy like an OCD fox '' stirrings that take him there . 	Andy Goldsworthy and his art are beautifully captured in this engaging documentary .
chris and don A great , revealing documentary ; one of the best films released in 2008 By examining this older/younger couple for differences of social circumstance , individual ego and personal desire that pertain to any love relationship , Santi and Mascara present a complex testament of gay experience . It 's remarkable because it 's rare . It 's a sentimental and loving picture , playing out as a leisurely cocktail-hour stroll through an enchanting life . Primed as we are by a culture rich in both homophobia and dirty old men , we can be forgiven for anticipating a sordid cautionary tale . It 's a shock -- a happy shock -- when Chris & Don recounts a love that approaches the transcendental . A real-life romance to put all those rom-com fairy tales to shame . A love unique in every respect -- nothing to sniff at and forever to be treasured . With delectable-looking home movies of the couple 's travels in California and Europe , Chris and Don offers an intimate portrayal of a passionate , enduring association , as well as a social history of postwar life . Santi and Mascara are right to call their film A Love Story , because this is the portrait of a marriage as full and enviable as the greatest unions in literature . What could have been sordid emerges instead as fiercely funny and touching . Even the animated sequences featuring the lovers the way they imagined themselves - Chris as a horse , Don as a cat - resonate with feeling and blunt truth . Isherwood and Bachardy 's story features cameos by a galaxy of literary and cinema stars , but few are as impressive as the protagonists , who defied the conventions of their times by living openly as a happy , well-adjusted couple . 	Chris and Don paints an affecting , enlightening portrait of a one-of-a-kind love affair .
sinbad legend of the seven seas Ancient mariner 's tale gets a modernized animated kids ' flick , travels the seven seas -- and lingers in your mind for maybe seven seconds . There 's little here that is n't overly familiar and formulaic , nothing that 's even in the same arena with the eye candy of those vivid adventures . Too cute for older kids , too bland for younger kids and too cute and too bland for the rest of us . This DreamWorks animated outing eventually surrenders to the paralyzing goop and arthritic formula that haunt 90 percent of the features churned out by arch-rival The Mouse House - but somehow fills its sails with enough wit and wonder to stay afloat . Sinbad : Legend of the Seven Seas is one of those animations so exquisitely designed to resemble a live-action feature that you have to wonder why its creative team simply did n't make a movie with real people and the usual special effects . An efficiently amusing and unsurprisingly polished blend of traditional hand-drawn and computer-generated animation techniques . Nice try Mr. Katzenberg , but not a winner this round . A passably entertaining animated entry from DreamWorks that 's closer to The Road to El Dorado than to Shrek . Combining atmospheric CGI backgrounds with superbly hand-drawn figures , the animation in this Arabian Nights-meets-Damon & Pythius tale is breath-taking . It 's a free-wheeling , fun-filled , eye-popping summer adventure . ... entertains and fully exploits all the accomplishments DreamWorks ' animation department has made to this point ... `` Sinbad '' stands as an accomplishment all on its own . 	Competent , but not magical .
project nim If there 's one thing Marsh knows , it 's how to reach your deepest emotions . He did it with 'Man on Wire , ' and he does it again here . As in `` Man on Wire , '' Marsh shows smooth craft and a sharp eye , and `` Project Nim '' is at once astounding and infuriating . You 're left with the impression that , despite not being able to grasp basic human grammar , perhaps Nim was unwittingly conditioned into understanding the concept of love . Tales of the attacks Nim inflicted on his many carers are horrific , but there is a pervasive sense there was nothing else they could have expected . It 's dispiriting to see James Marsh deploy a rhetorical strategy of simply assuming human/chimp equivalence in order to stoke outrage at Nim 's post-experiment treatment . Yet another captivating , heartfelt , provocative and stylishly edited documentary from the brilliant James Marsh . A documentary , stunningly watchable , about the 1970s American research team that explored the `` educability '' of a chimpanzee . This sad , informative film is a high-quality documentary and another feather in the cap of James Marsh . As he did in Man on Wire , Marsh seamlessly integrates dramatized shots and scenes with authentic home-movie and news footage of Nim and his human companions . I 've never been a fan of recreations in documentaries , but Marsh uses them better than ... Here 's a documentary so slick , novel , touching and outrageous that your first thought might be `` This has to be fake . '' 	Equal parts hilarious , poignant , and heartbreaking , Project Nim not only tells a compelling story masterfully , but also raises the flag on the darker side of human nature .
transamerica Begins as a cult 'transgender ' film , then undergoes emergency reassignment surgery to become a mainstream adventure in parent-child 'closure . ' By turns hysterically funny and heartbreaking , Transamerica is a film of tremendous warmth , charm and perception anchored to a central performance of unique power . A perfect example of an ordinary movie made unique by the powerhouse performance of its lead . The challenge of Huffman 's role is n't just in physical terms , but also in Bree 's conflicted state of serving at once as Toby 's father , mother and friend . For artistry and degree of technical difficulty , this judge awards Felicity Huffman a 10 for her performance in Transamerica . But as with so many elaborate Olympic sports , this judge asks for clarification : What is the point of the exercise ? The most original American movie comedy this year . There 's a terrific performance here by Huffman , and an interesting premise . But for me , the script did n't ring true . Huffman is on delicate ground throughout the film but she infuses the role with fragility , strength and grace . ( Huffman 's ) performance is one of those rare pieces of acting that actually deserves to be labeled a tour de force . There 's a reason Felicity Huffman 's lead performance is the only element of Transamerica that 's getting any awards play : Nothing else about the film is especially noteworthy . 	A terrific performance by Felicity Huffman carries this unconventional but touching transgender road movie .
captivity Even in the fetid swamp of the torture porn genre , it stands out as a particularly awful movie . A spirit-sapping exercise in female degradation fantasy . It flunks because it 's one of the daftest , dullest films I 've seen in an absolute age . Larry Cohen , an experienced horror hand , wrote this , and Joff does his best to keep the tension boiling up to a ridiculous climax . Even so , everybody involved should be ashamed of this nasty farrago . This is n't filmmaking it 's shock treatment . What a loathsome , reckless and sickening glimpse into madness this is . [ Joffe ] brings an artful video-grunge look , and not much else , to this Saw clone . Torture junkies should remember it 's only four months to Saw IV -- so you can afford to avoid Captivity . Captivity has the compulsory quality of a straight-to-DVD movie -- and considering the fast-fading torture-porn movement , that 's no doubt the destiny of similar offerings to follow . Polished and atmospheric , but utterly vacuous . 	Lacking scares or psychological insight , Captivity is a distasteful entry in the 'torture porn ' subgenre .
sideways Frankly , I do n't know how Payne does it , but his formula of bringing out popularly hailed qualities in an apparent loser has worked again . Built upon its characters and would have been ordinary if it had n't been for the excellent casting . Makes you feel like you 're trapped at dinner with a wiseass who 's trying to convince you what a sensitive guy he is . Refreshing , unpretentious and genuinely affecting . Sideways is neither effete nor snooty . It 's a knowing , often-tender comedy about the plight of middle-aged men who are n't exactly living fast-track lives . Although lacking the complexities of Election -- still Payne 's best work -- the picture does exude an intelligent craftsmanship that 's hard to resist . I 've long been a fan of Thomas Haden Church ... It 's great to see him finally get his due , even as Paul Giamatti sucks up all the attention Sideways is a buddy movie that is a delight from start to finish : it offers a round-trip ticket to the rewards of friendship and the follies and frustrations of middle-age . ... there is an underlying honesty ... that manages to transcend a critic-friendly film and strike a chord about life . Sideways is such a giddy pleasure that it 's hard to talk about without wanting to share every little secret you discover along the way . 	Charming , thoughtful , and often funny , Sideways is a decidedly mature road trip comedy full of excellent performances .
10004662-last holiday Everything that sounds wrong about this project is . Holiday belongs with those formulaic comedies that bug critics as they please crowds . Queen Latifah has such an engaging on-screen persona that she 's able to make gem out of what would have otherwise been a lump of coal of a movie . She 's ( Queen Latifa ) the unexpected and hugely effective star of Last Holiday , a pleasant trifle made far better than it should be by her effortless charm and expansive spirit . Really what Holiday is about is Latifah . The film 's larger arc and plot twists leave quite a bit to be desired . But Wang 's overall delicate touch makes Last Holiday tolerable . If we are to live in a world of movies in which women are comically diagnosed with brain diseases and discover their moxie through base jumping in the Czech Republic , let us at least have Queen Latifah 's brass to add a bass note to the treacle . Money can buy you happiness in this inferior remake - although its makeover storyline may please fans of The Princess Diaries et al . While nowhere near the quality of the Alec Guinness/J.B . Priestley original , this is n't an outright travesty . Georgia saves the world one Abramoff at a time . 	Although Queen Latifah 's bountiful life-affirming spirit permeates the film , director Wayne Wang is unable to revive this remake with any real flair .
1003625-carrie The reason Carrie is still held in such high regard as a horror classic is very simple : it 's all in the sheer directorial bravado . De Palma at the top of his game . The film has a strikingly unsettling mood that enhances its power and gives it an impact that the story would otherwise lack . Much of the credit , though , must go to Spacek , who so convincingly portrays Carrie 's pain and her longing for acceptance . A terrifying and awe inspiring revenge film ... Pure squeamish horror ! It 's a gripping and rousing perusal of our human souls -- an opportunity to become aware of our dark sides and meet them head on . Stephen King 's disturbing prom horror classic . De Palma 's masterpiece of pure cinema is the unsung Great American Film of the 1970s . ... a cautionary tale that suggests that fear of the unusual justifies any action to displace the potential danger ... My , how times have changed . Carrie might be a film about high school , but it was perhaps Brian De Palma 's first completely mature film . It is sometimes funny in a puzzling kind of way , it is generally overwrought in an irritating kind of way , and once in a while it is inappropriately touching . 	Carrie is a horrifying look at supernatural powers , high school cruelty , and teen angst -- and it brings us one of the most memorable and disturbing prom scenes in history .
1011623-king of comedy To be sure , Robert De Niro turns in another virtuoso performance for Martin Scorsese , just as in their four previous efforts . But once again -- and even more so -- they come up with a character that it 's hard to spend time with . It is frustrating to watch , unpleasant to remember , and , in its own way , quite effective . `` twisted , scary satire that was far ahead of its time '' One of the most disturbing , thought-provoking and funniest films of the 1980s . This underappreciated Scorsese great is more relevant today than ever . Misunderstood by critics in 1983 , this is one of the most incisive ( and scary ) movies about the desperate desire to achieve fame in American society , and the shallow nature of pop culture ; De Niro and Jerry Lewis are terrific Creepiest movie of the year in every sense , and one of the best . A wholly original and entirely offbeat , dark comedy about fame , obsessive fandom , and the medium from which they both feed : television . ... remains a high-water mark in terms of De Niro 's onscreen work ... Creepy , frighteningly funny and brilliant as cultural satire . Probably Martin Scorsese 's most overlooked movie , this eerie parody of celebrity culture features what may be Jerry Lewis ' best performance . 	Largely misunderstood upon its release , The King of Comedy today looks eerily prescient , and features a fine performance by Robert DeNiro as a strangely sympathetic psychopath .
claim A moody , mesmerizing tale of attempted redemption , bursting with unexpected images . Solidly told but ultimately rather mundane to watch . It suffers from a slim and fractured narrative , unengaging mode of storytelling and yet another irritating performance from Milla Jovovich . A well-intentioned but enervating misfire . The gorgeously photographed winter backdrops that frame the action of The Claim are as much a character as any of the protagonists . A raw tale , told with passion and conviction . Not likely to please anyone . A movie like this rides on its cinematography , and Alwin H. Kuchler evokes the cold darkness so convincingly that Kingdom Come seems built on an abyss . Takes place against a frigid canvas gorgeously captured by Alwin Kuchler . A little like enjoying the work of the best student of a great painter . All in all , you would probably like to go back to seeing the previous work . 	Though it sometimes feels cold and detached , The Claim is evocative , beautifully shot , and full of understated performances .
you dont mess with the zohan If sight gags , genital jokes , and crazy caricatures are your thing , You Do n't Mess with the Zohan pulls it off better than any movie since Austin Powers . Zohan is both exponentially stranger than Larry and about twice as amusing . The best Mossad agent turned hair stylist movie ever made . Seriously , it 's actually really good and fun . It 's a difficult feat to manage irony without antecedent , so rather than opt for knowing caricature -- like , say , Adam Goldberg 's The Hebrew Hammer -- Zohan mostly opts for empty farce : topical humor for people unfamiliar with the topic . Three cheers for a crazy wisdom hero who wants to make the world a kinder , gentler place ! Amusing Adam Sandler comedy with a bonkers premise , a surprisingly likeable central character and a handful of decent gags . Amid the silliness , the boorishness and the vulgarity is a certain warmness and sweetness . Director Duggan serves up a scattershot satire that is about as funny as a Palestinian landmine at an Israeli kiddie birthday party . Broad , offensive and thinly veiled ... You have to give Adam Sandler some credit : He is trying new things and working to expand his particular brand of juvenile comedy , albeit not always successfully . There are a handful of legitimately funny jokes , even though -- though it frightens me to say so -- I do n't get as excited as I got when I was fifteen . 	You Do n't Mess With the Zohan features intermittent laughs , and will please Sandler diehards , but after awhile the leaky premise wears thin .
queen of the damned At its best , Queen is campy fun like the Vincent Price horror classics of the '60s . At its worst , it implodes in a series of very bad special effects . There 's a bit of thematic meat on the bones of Queen of the Damned , as its origins in an Anne Rice novel dictate , but generally , it 's a movie that emphasizes style over character and substance . Tom Cruise had the good sense to stay away from reprising his role of Lestat in this film . ... looks luscious but feels as though a whole lot of story got lost between the page and the screen . If legendary shlockmeister Ed Wood had ever made a movie about a vampire , it probably would look a lot like this alarming production , adapted from Anne Rice 's novel The Vampire Chronicles . Rymer does n't trust laughs -- and does n't conjure proper respect for followers of the whole dead-undead genre , who deserve more from a vampire pic than a few shrieky special effects . ... just a big mess of a movie , full of images and events , but no tension or surprise . In a 102-minute film , Aaliyah gets at most 20 minutes of screen time . ... most viewers will wish there had been more of the `` Queen '' and less of the `` Damned . '' It 's a soundtrack in search of a movie . Aaliyah is gorgeous , but that does n't save the film 's tedious pacing , and cheesy atmosphere in the end . 	A muddled and campy MTV-styled vampire movie with lots of eye candy and bad accents .
1153987-nanny mcphee With Yours , Mine and Ours and Cheaper By the Dozen 2 lately cluttering up the multiplexes with teeming masses of onscreen children in search of a better agent , Nanny McPhee arrives as a jolly improvement . Will kids like the movie ? I suspect they will . Kids like to see other kids learning the rules even if they do n't much want to learn them themselves . Frays in the second half Fancy Darcy as a limp romantic lead ! You ca n't confuse `` Nanny McPhee '' with `` Mary Poppins '' Although `` Nanny '' does bear a resemblance to the original , non-Disney writings of the heroine of P.L . Travers ' beloved books . The movie is hampered by production designer Michael Howell 's garish neon color palate contrasted against clownish costumes by Nic Ede ... It 's about time somebody put some enchantment back into the profession , and McPhee is the appealing and visually vibrant family film diversion that provides the spark . The saccharine production design and nasty pink-and-red buxom costumes are as fabulous as the full palette of hysterical performances . And while those classics , like Julie Andrews ' incandescent Maria and Poppins , were practically perfect in every way , Nanny McPhee is quite deserving of its own special place in the magical universe . The young 'uns could certainly do worse than Nanny McPhee as they await the next instalment of Potter . Unfortunately , Colin Firth seems as though he 's on auto-pilot and the relationship between his character and Evangeline is unconvincing , if not borderline inappropriate . 	A bit alarming at first , Nanny McPhee has a hard edge to counter Mary Poppins-style sweetness , but it still charms us and teaches some valuable lessons .
wreck it ralph You might wish you could insert another quarter when it finally reaches 'game over . ' ( Full Content Review for Parents also available ) Anyone who grew up within a controller cable length of a gaming console will need to see this film . Play an actual videogame instead . The film flies off in all sorts of directions , all of them rewarding . But the best trick is how screenwriters Phil Johnston and Jennifer Lee bring everything back together , even the seemingly least-related elements . A sort of Toy Story as seen through an 8-bit lens . The giddiest cartoon comedy in years . 'Wreck-It Ralph ' combines a fresh idea with a true love for retro pop culture . It 's hard not to love this movie . A sweet , colorful 3-D animated feature that finds Disney passing its stuck-in-a-rut partners at Pixar . Hyperactive day-glo fizzy-pop family animation with a heartfelt message about staying true to yourself lurking underneath all the visual fireworks . Funny , heartwarming , interesting characters , but just a little bit overlong . 	Equally entertaining for both kids and parents old enough to catch the references , Wreck-It Ralph is a clever , colorful adventure built on familiar themes and joyful nostalgia .
this is the end I 'm predicting a sequel of this movie to be entitled `` This Is The End , Really '' . A funny but flawed film that would have benefited from a tighter edit . Michael Cera 's coked out stud is insanely fun , but he 's gone too soon and most of the comedy goes with him . This gut-busting comedy is an intoxicating mix of `` Write what you know '' and `` Give the people what they want . '' The results are undeniably amusing , but hardly supply the bellylaughs one would expect from such sleepover atmosphere of pals making a hearty , weed-foggy doomsday commotion . If Fast and Furious 6 was stupid in the bad way , This is the End is stupid in the best and funniest way . Even with this film 's comedy strategy being the `` let 'em all fly and see what sticks '' approach , it 's amazing how adhesive so much of this is . You may have trouble at times deciding whether to laugh out loud or to avert your horrified gaze . You 'll never look at Michael Cera the same way again . I was literally in pain from laughing so hard . The guys are just furthering a story so that we can get more laughs before the lights come back and we realize we may have just witnessed the end of the Best Comedy of 2013 competition . 	Energetic , self-deprecating performances and enough guffaw-inducing humor make up for the flaws in This Is the End loosely written script .
bringing down the house Just because Larry King called this `` One of the funniest movies ever '' does n't mean the rest of us have to similarly lose control of our mental faculties . Still , this is n't nearly as awful as its reputation , thanks mainly to its three central performances . ... '' Bringing Down the House '' is certainly worth the ticket in . Has so much going for it , it 's all the more jarring when the laughs stop coming . It 's a shame the movie could n't finish what it started . It 's an odd mix of entertaining yet irresponsible filmmaking ... wait to rent it . I think it was after Betty White told Steve Martin 's son not to `` wear his hair like a *** '' that I thought about walking out . With enough good nature and friendly humor to still be considered a family comedy , Bringing Down the House also hits an edginess that will keep today 's audiences laughing . A gut-busting , stereotype-busting slapstick comedy . Each performer charms the audience by presenting characters we like even when we should n't . The movie appears to have been made for an audience that considers the idea of black people terribly exotic . There 's no shortage of laughs , thanks to some sharp one-liners , two stars at the top of their game , and a solid supporting cast of veteran laugh-getters . 	Though the cast shines , they ca n't save this comedy , which is overly contrived and filled with outdated and offensive racial jokes .
lakeboat The magic is in the words , and there 's always laughter , anger and sadness to be found in David Mamet 's poetry of inarticulateness . Where Mantegna succeeds is in providing a forum for some great acting . If you like David Mamet 's men and their crazily profane arguments , you 'll be happy you came . Mamet 's fixation on language is ... more effective onstage than onscreen , where the technical and visual requirements distract from the sounds of the words -- the heart of Mamet 's work . This plotless film is filled with a zillion little nostalgia stories that are both pointless and irritating , but some stories can also be devilishly charming . Lakeboat requires its audiences to embrace it as lovingly as Mamet and Mantegna embrace its men , but it 's a lot to ask . Mantegna takes the episodic , almost skit-like structure of the play and turns it into snapshots of a vanishing way of life . Vivid performances by a first-rate cast will hold your interest . The piece is a theatrical curio , but no less fascinating for that . An elegiac and tartly amusing tribute to a group of guys trying to make the most of the hand life has dealt them . 	Though not much happens plot-wise , Lakeboat still has a lot to offer for fans of Mamet .
in the house 2013 Has the slow-pulsing vertigo of a psychological thriller & the twists of an elaborate melodrama , but to reduce it to these labels is glib . Caustic & funny but never misanthropic . A study of the ways people actually live , rather than how we assume they do . A sharp , enticing psychological cat-and-mouse game . Its gleeful dark wit comes from manipulations , voyeurism , the idea that we all invade each other 's lives and thoughts . A cinematic bouquet of surprising left turns and addictive story hooks . Strongly recommended . ... joins a handful of clever films where fiction and reality merge , like `` Adaptation '' or Zoe Kazan 's more recent `` Ruby Sparks . '' It 's thrilling , funny , smart and hugely entertaining , more satisfying than the director 's breakout film . The dexterity of the actors and their director is not quite enough , and as `` In the House '' accelerates , it also starts to sputter , piling on incidents and revelations that cause its web of implications to unravel . Mostly , the film 's a confident , very sophisticated meditation on art - on why we need it , how we identify with it and what it gives our lives . And what it ca n't replace . Satirizes the process of aesthetic creation and the damage it can inflict on the artist and those around him . As a black comedy , this never quite catches fire , though there is some mild amusement to be found in its social satire . Narrative issues hold In the House back from being as great as it should be . Even though the buildup does n't yield the anticipated payoff , [ In the House ] remains a slick , artful and highly entertaining ride . 	Dark , tense , and wryly funny , In the House is brilliantly directed by Franois Ozon and features fine performances from its talented cast .
return to me Easily the most sane and encouraging romantic comedy since the far more polished , but equally expansive and ethnically flavored Moonstruck . Predictable , sporadically engaging fable . Wholly predictable . As light and fluffy as it is , Return to Me still proves surprisingly inviting , thanks to some canny direction by actress Bonnie Hunt in her filmmaking debut . Why does the film have to be two hours ? Does no one hire an editor anymore ? What it has is heart . Return to Me is a story for all ages . First-time director Bonnie Hunt has taken what could have been an incredibly sappy story and used her sense of comedic timing to fashion a date flick that even the guys might enjoy . Every shot is squarely predictable , and you 'd never guess that cinematographer Laszlo Kovacs has done major work like Paper Moon . See this wonderful film and let it teach you about the warmth , the richness , and the renewal of life . 	David Duchovny and Minnie Driver provide heart-warming romance and comedy in this solid debut by Director Bonnie Hunt .
scary movie 3 Often in spectacular bad taste , but like its predecessors it made me laugh hard and often . Just middling funny , with no truly memorable high points and a sum impact that goes poof ! before you 've left the parking garage . Scary Movie 3 turns out to be an odd combination of the old-fashioned and the hip . I found it too awkward a combination to be entirely successful . Algumas gags funcionam , mas numa razo de cerca de 30 % , eu diria . Portanto , talvez esta produo valha o preo do ingresso - isto , caso voc consiga 70 % de desconto . It 's time to stop , I 'm afraid . If you 're looking for anything other than a parody clipshow , you wo n't find it . Delivers plenty of decent laughs in its short running time . The film 's comic philosophy might best be summed up this way : If you think it 's funny seeing Sheen bang his head against a lamp once , then it 's twice as funny to see him do it twice . Zucker 's slapstick may have the satiric delicacy of a chainsaw lobotomy , but it has n't harmed the franchise . This is just a stab in the dark , the wildest of guesses on my part , but I do n't think Michael Jackson would recommend `` Scary Movie 3 . '' 	Though an improvement over the second Scary Movie , the laughs are still inconsistent .
10010658-orphan It 's bloody , you should be warned , but in the end it is worth it . The movie is , as these things go , enjoyably trashy . Director Jaume Collet-Serra ( House of Wax ) endows this ugly mess with a slew of unintentional laughs , but not enough to repay the 123-minute time suck . It has atmosphere and tension , and the performances are far better than usual for this sort of caper . As interesting as Collet-Serra 's story is , there 's simply nothing here that you wo n't find in other better evil children films in the library ... There 's something wrong with Esther says the marketing tagline to this film , which sums up my response to the film itself . Isabelle Fuhrman as Esther does her best with the material , but frankly the story lacks a strong central thesis about the nature of evil . Has enough kinky Grand Guignol moments and scenes of sheer terror to make a quick killing at the box office-even though it borrows from just about every other Bad Seed flick Hollywood has ever unleashed . Enough jump-out-of-your-seat moments to make this nonetheless trashy , implausible thirller watchable . Overlong and overwrought , Orphan stays faithful to every clich of the genre . 	While it has moments of dark humor and the requisite scares , Orphan fails to build on its interesting premise and degenerates into a formulaic , sleazy horror/thriller .
elling The subtle strength of `` Elling '' is that it never loses touch with the reality of the grim situation . Cutsie but still fairly compelling . A charming but slight comedy . A film of charm , freshness and bracingly generous humanity . The film 's brand of humor seems a bit too broad , and the quirks of its main characters are n't really all that endearing , instead coming off as irritating and tiresome . Charms because of its natural , non-magical attitude toward humanity . unpretentious , charming , quirky , original This Norwegian comedy celebrates an unusual friendship and the uncanny ways two eccentrics come into their own despite the great odds against their doing so . The film is filled with humorous observations about the general absurdity of modern life as seen through the eyes outsiders , but deftly manages to avoid many of the condescending stereotypes that so often plague films dealing with the mentally ill . Beautifully observed , miraculously unsentimental comedy-drama . 	Quirky without being overly cutesy , Elling is a gentle , warm comedy .
10009458-defiance The film ties itself in knots trying to be both historical account and ripping adventure - 'Schindler 's List ' by way of 'The Dirty Dozen ' . In the end neither aspect satisfies , resulting in a drab if diverting Sunday afternoon spectacle . This Holocaust epic deserves a commendation of merit for making us cognizant of an important and often overlooked event . Skilled hiding is n't very exciting , so for the sake of the audience , Zwick carefully incorporates some hyped-up action standoffs , the last being an unfortunately laughable stretch of credibility . Schreiber and Craig make a well-matched pair of bulls . Schreiber 's volatility is a nice foil to the taciturn intelligence that makes Craig such a great Bond . o Zwick trabaei parapano apo ektyflotika profaneis parallilismoys tis sygkekrimenis istorias me ekeini tis Eksodoy , poy profanos den tis skeftike o Zwick monos toy , o opoios to mono poy epideiknyei synehos , einai i apithanotita toy na epinoisei otidipote Defiance makes a noise but leaves no echo . It feels progressively more bogus and less significant the further it recedes from view , and myths are meant to wax in the memory , not wane . The few closing-credit title cards that give details about the real Bielskis ' fate are more engaging than most of the film itself . Now that 's sad . Defiance is n't afraid to stand apart . Zwick 's weighty pacing moves forward in a monotone hum with no sense of highs or lows . And so it goes , with one misstep after another . Historian Nechama Tec 's factual book `` Defiance : The Story of the Bielski Partisans '' provides the basis for an underwhelming war film done in by miscalculated episodes of violence and inept dialogue . 	Professionally made but artistically uninspired , Ed Zwick 's story of Jews surviving WWII in the Belarus forest lacks the emotional punch of the actual history .
no mans land [ A ] stunning farce ... This tour of duty to the cineplex is worth enlisting for . It 's less about battlefields and weaponry than it is about personality conflicts and the agonizing frustration that boils inside people who want to put positive changes into effect , but are too entangled in red tape to do much of anything . A bleakly funny parable that could be titled Between Enemy Lines . This powerful film is often harrowing to watch , but it can also be shockingly entertaining as it deftly mixes macabre humor , pathos , and horror . Skimps on character development for such a politically-charged movie The writing is brisk and smart and this is one fine film . No Man 's Land hurts when you laugh . A balanced and devastatingly accurate look at the Bosnian conflict Scathingly tense , blackly funny and ultimately indelible . 	Bleak and darkly humorous , No Man 's Land vividly illustrates the absurdity of war .
top five Top Five is easily the `` Avengers '' of comedians where the laugh meter never drops from its highest point . It 's a slap-happy movie and often scurrilously funny - the sound of a gifted comic mind finally finding its onscreen voice . Rock is no actor , but he rides a wave of funny , self-aware and outrageous situations , and this is always watchable . Top Five is Chris Rock 's latest slice of personal comedy , except New York is the stage and echoes of Woody Allen , Louie C.K , Adam Sandler and Jerry Seinfeld abound . `` Top Five '' will be hailed as revolutionary by some -- - but definitely not by David or me . Mr. Rock has made a pyrotechnic pinwheel of a personal comedy , and he 's had the wisdom to share it with a strong co-star . While he sends sparks flying every which way , Rosario Dawson keeps the story grounded in calm intelligence and classic romance . Strikes a delicate balance between social commentary , show business satire , general vulgarity and legitimate sweetness . Chris Rock squanders an interesting idea with an implausible premise in this comedy about a superstar stand-up ( Rock ) who no longer values his comic instincts . It can be hard for a movie to dwell on the problems of the rich and famous without seeming a touch self-serving , but Rock always keeps things in perspective . A seriously funny , semi-autobiographical film that might be the most accomplished work Chris Rock has ever done for the big screen . 	As smart , funny , and trenchant as writer-director-star Chris Rock 's best standup work , Top Five is a career highlight for its creator -- and one of the comedy standouts of 2014 .
1105979-brothers An amiable , engaging and personal film . For all its coarse humor , The Brothers has moments of tenderness and depth . A shallow comedy with few insights and only sporadic laughs . The main drawback of The Brothers is one of balance . A politically incorrect but often hilarious jam session . If The Brothers falls far short of its prototype , Waiting to Exhale , it still conveys a warm-blooded affection for its characters . If you want to take down Waiting to Exhale , you 'd better have a stronger grip on men and women and how they connect or fail to connect than this . A lively , affectionate and well-acted romantic comedy . One is left with warm memories of laughs , loves , and most of all likable characters with whom one would n't mind spending another two hours . Stuffed with the most obvious points imaginable . 	Often seen as a Waiting to Exhale with men , The Brothers is amiable . However , it feels superficial and somewhat of a retread .
v for vendetta Silly ... V is not George Washington , Henry V or even Patrick Henry . He 's the ghost of the Phantom of the Opera accessorized with Ginsu knives and kung fu . After being burned in effigy for 400 years , you 'd think Guy Fawkes would appreciate a little rehabilitation , but he could hardly approve of the way the Wachowskis have done it . A movie that has been made in the Wachowski style but lacks their distinctive visual flair . V is a quick-paced , dazzling film of social rebellion , but unfortunately leaves some interesting ideas out to die , topping the amount of intense thought with pyrotechnics . A political and symbolic thinking person 's action movie . An absolutely incendiary work . V for Vendetta is a piece of pulp claptrap ; it has no insights whatsoever into totalitarian psychology and always settles for the cheesiest kinds of demagoguery and harangue as its emblems of evil . V for Vendetta has something going for it that 's rare in mainstream films : It has ideas . It has questions . And even when it pretends to have answers , it also raises questions about those answers . L o les 2 derniers volets de La Matrice taient prtentieux , souvent ridicules et gnralement ennuyants , V pour Vendetta est tout le contraire . With yet another bloated and self-important mythos under their belts , the hope of a quality screenplay penned from the Wachowski brothers continues to fade . 	Visually stunning and thought-provoking , V For Vendetta 's political pronouncements may rile some , but its story and impressive set pieces will nevertheless entertain .
twin-peaks-fire-walk-with-me Twin Peaks : Fire Walk With Me reveals the side of this quiet American town that could never be shown on television . It 's a seriously underrated work and one of Lynch 's purest dives into his own twisted soul . The quintessential Lynch . Prepare to be confused/ intrigued/ frustrated/ disturbed/ hooked . If you did n't get it then , you 're not going to get it now . If you were a fan of Twin Peaks , and stuck with it through the goofiness of its last season , the movie is a parting gift to you . Like the lonesome foghorn , there are many signs to be interpreted and heeded , and their meaning and provenance is not always clear . In Twin Peaks the movie , all the twists get straightened out . The thrill is gone . The series was often involving and spooky ; the movie is insipid and kooky For those who are willing to go the distance with Lynch , the return trip to Twin Peaks is well worth the trouble . At its best , it 's a dream within a dream , a nightmare in endlessly reflecting pop mirrors , a screen full of TV-movie sex and horror kitsch blowing up right in our faces . 	For better or worse , Twin Peaks : Fire Walk With Me is every bit as strange and twisted as you 'd expect from David Lynch .
les-plages-dagnes The flights of fancy settle down toward the film 's end and Varda increasingly comes across as a very smart and rather charming citizen of the real world , as opposed to an artist too out-there to be relatable . The Beaches of Agnes is a work of delightful contradictions from a filmmaker who has always played by her own rules . a film that acknowledges time and age without completely giving into their grim results . Varda 's brilliant cinematic reflection of her life , loves and prolific career is both poignant and inspiring . If you love cinema , 'Beaches ' is a must see ! Filmmakers do n't usually do documentaries about themselves , but Agnes Varda 's The Beaches of Agnes is good enough to start a trend . An octogenarian French auteur looks back on her life , times and movies in this engagingly jaunty documentary . There 's not much discipline and it 's way too long , but in common with her best work , it has a dreamy sort of charm . Replete with clips and anecdotes , The Beaches of Agnes is a treat to anyone who already cherishes Varda 's films and a perfect primer for those who have n't yet discovered her work . Playful and lucid , the film gives the heartening impression of endless hunger for people , experiences and images , of the camera 's privileged ability to capture lived life . A film as unique and impressive as its subject . 	An enchanting self-portrait by a veteran director , Beach of Agnes is equal parts playful and profound .
tron Tron is loaded with visual delights but falls way short of the mark in story and viewer involvement . Dazzling but lightweight . Dated effects , of course , but still nerdy fun after all these years . Tron is at once a supremely silly movie and a groundbreaking one . It 's best seen as the maiden voyage of an expedition that has led us to wonders like Gollum from the Lord of the Rings movies and Avatar . It 's a simple idea that ought to serve , but Lisberger 's failures of pacing , structure , variation , and characterization ultimately make the film seem monotonous and distant . Without the rosy filter of nostalgia , it 's a virtually unwatchable virtual-reality saga . Grandfather of the geek cult movies . The special effects are dated , but at the time they were awesome . The biggest letdown -- the MCP is a big red cylinder with a face reminiscent of the Kool-Aid Man . A must-have DVD for us former adolescent computer nerds 	Though perhaps not as strong dramatically as it is technologically , TRON is an original and visually stunning piece of science fiction that represents a landmark work in the history of computer animation .
notre musique Marries a banal message with a directorial technique that 's now more sclerotic than innovative . Godard locates the heart of the world in that divide , that moral schism . The movie then asks , without answering , Can it ever be repaired ? A refreshingly moving , relatively easy-to-follow guide to the persistence of mankind 's barbarism and our equally dogged hope to achieve some kind of reconciliation before the last light is stomped out . Jean-Luc Godard returns with another of his extraordinary , heated , agitated essay films . It 's glorious . Musical . Amazing and lovely and smart and stylish and fascinating . This intellectually scintillating think-piece from the eternally relevant Jean-Luc Godard finds Hell and Purgatory right here on our sorry , scorched earth . plays out as a series of dry pronouncements from intellectuals . But Godard has not lost his taste for experimentation . For those willing to ponder , this is a worthy feast of words and images . The 73 year-old enfant terrible can still take society to task for failing to recognise that it 's our dualities that enrich life rather than any fanciful notions of global unity . Mr. Godard has n't earned the right to take the mantle of Jewishness upon himself as if it were some sort of Halloween mask . 	A dense , but thoughtful meditation about war by Jean-Luc Godard .
brave one Regardless of the artistry involved , The Brave One ultimately never really strays from the same moral low road as Death Wish . Two terrific lead actors under the direction of the estimable Jordan are n't enough to overcome the proven axiom that although you can make a bad movie from a good script , you ca n't make a good one from a bad one . This one 's all about performance : Ms. Foster 's as a gun-toting angel of vengeance overcomes flaws in plot . Una pelcula mediocre , sensacionalista y manipuladora filmada por un buen director . Jodie Foster and Terrence Howard deliver unforgettable performances that elevate this movie to more than a revenge film . The Brave One , though well cast and smoothly directed , is just as crude and ugly as you want it to be . The likes of the great , loony Ms. 45 and dozens of Asian exploitation movies did [ this subject ] trashier . Yet , somehow , many of those felt more honest . In that moment , the movie changes too , from a subjective contemplation of her grief and loss to an erratic vigilante pic . Drama , action , humor and sex appeal . What more could you ask for ? As its blandly heroic title forecasts , `` The Brave One '' is a revenge fantasy that floats like a narrative helium balloon waiting to find its ceiling . 	Magnetic by between Jodie Foster and Terrence Howard ca n't quite compensate for The Brave One 's problematic and unconvincing eye-for-an-eye moral .
lumumba The tumultuous events surrounding the rise and fall of the Congo 's first prime minister are rendered with passion and complexity . Earnestly but amateurishly acted , the movie feels more like a play with the actors exaggerating their gestures so that even those in the cheap seats wo n't miss anything . As fluid and intellectually stimulating as the man himself . The trouble with the film is not canonization but , again , the recurrent defect in pictures about such people . The ideational data are so sketchy that it is as if we were riffling the pages of a complicated book . [ C ] ompelling . Moving , poignant , and quietly angry . Draws an indelible portrait of how a young nation can be turned into a civic basket case . Complex , powerful , intensely dramatic . Manages to give us , from the start , a comprehensible , if necessarily simplified , sense of an extremely complicated moment in history . Never much more than hagiography that lets the context of its hero 's death remain confused . 	Ebouaney 's fiery performance makes Lumumba compelling .
barbershop 2 back in business For all of the snappy verbal sparring and romantic complications that embellish the film , it is ultimately about community ... Perhaps if the movie had been funnier , it would 've been easier to overlook the bizarre dramatic interludes ... Although it lacks the freshness of the original film , Barbershop 2 is still enjoyable and often laugh-out-loud funny . It never strains , even though pulled muscles are a common sequel injury . You get the feeling the screenwriter is scraping around inside a mine that was n't meant to be visited more than once . [ Fumbles ] around with what had been a winning cast of characters , reducing their living , breathing relationships to a series of exchanges of cheap insults . glossier and more focused than its scruffy predecessor Inane banter soon takes over and is not helped by an unlikely , flashback-heavy subplot about Eddie ( Cedric the Entertainer ) and a lost love . Cube is still adorable , but the potentially poppin ' battle between the shop and big-box competitor Nappy Cuts gets obscured by sloppy chronology and flat , cartoonish politicos . An appreciation of ritual and exchange , a generosity of spirit . 	The humor is less sharp and more warm-hearted this time around , and the characters are enjoyable to revisit .
diplomatie Based on the French play by Cyril Gely and directed by Volker Schlndorff 's Diplomacy is so soundly engineered and acted that it does n't seem stagey at all . A highly civilised piece of work . Tere 's a fair amount of talking in circles , even with the film 's brisk running time . The dialogue also reflects the material 's stage origins in ways that do n't always translate well . The result is a gorgeously shot , finely composed , tremendously acted bit of historical melodrama ... Diplomacy induces pins and needles from the get-go and does n't let up until the credits roll . How can it be suspenseful when we know Paris survived ? Because Schlndorff 's opened-up play adaptation showcases two mesmerizing actors reliving how individuals make history . The film is n't really fooling anyone into feeling doom-laden suspense ( Paris , after all , is still standing ) , but the principal performers sell the momentousness of the drama . Adapted from a stage production written by Cyril Gely , it feels more theatrical than cinematic , but its historic importance is adequate to hold viewers ' attention . The value of `` Diplomacy '' is that it produces at least as much unsettlement as relief , compelling the viewer to remain haunted by nightmarish thoughts of what might have happened . You know , after all , what the end result will be , but `` Diplomacy '' is strong enough to keep the situation intense and important . 	For filmgoers who value character development and smart dialogue over plot , Diplomacy yields rich , powerfully acted rewards .
oceans thirteen Ocean 's 13 knows everybody loves to see the house lose , which is what makes watching the gang rig the casino to go bust so fun . Trapped by the very conventions it created , Ocean 's Thirteen is a disappointing fake . One last job ? Sure ... but it 's a hack job . Ocean 's Thirteen is one long set-up for a wholly unsatisfying and impotent climax . The movie is all heist , which Soderbergh carries off in high style . In a summer where every intended blockbuster has so far been the third in a series it 's a relief to note that the fourth third to come along is the best of the lot . It 's fairly charming , extremely well put-together , and by this time next week I doubt I 'll remember even having seen it . ... one of those bright , shiny things that delights us as if we were simple babies . If you do n't believe me , watch how it will even make some women drool . Watching this movie is like eating cotton candy : It may not have any substance , but it sure tastes good . After two other movies in the series , Ocean 's Thirteen does n't exactly feel fresh , but what 's cool is that it does n't feel stale either . This is the rare movie series where the third entry is just as much fun as the original . The suits are sleek , the dialogue snappy , the tone wry , the jazz hip . Even Las Vegas -- bastion of neon kitsch that it is -- looks opulently graceful . 	Ocean 's Thirteen reverts to the formula of the first installment , and the result is another slick and entertaining heist film .
everyone says i love you Magical experiment from Woody Allen . It 's a world of both serene privilege and surreal possibility , and it offers a delightful and witty compendium of the film maker 's favorite things . [ Allen 's ] most purely enjoyable movie since 1987 's Radio Days . It 's just great dumb fun , as a musical should be . For a picture that 's almost a complete misfire , it 's painless to sit through . Woody Allen 's musical exploration of the variety and vagaries of romantic love . Styled as a romantic confection , Everyone Says I Love You is , in fact , steeped in an unacknowledged middle-aged sadness that leaks from the writer-director and saps the energies of his cast . Woody Allen 's musical comedy . A delightful and infectiously happy movie . It 's difficult not to be impressed by what Allen has achieved with this film : successfully reviving the musical comedy in such a thoroughly delightful fashion . 	A likable , infectious musical , Woody Allen 's Everyone Says I Love You is sometimes uneven but always toe-tapping and fun .
miss congeniality Tapping inner reservoirs of comedic talent that even her fans probably were n't aware of , Bullock hits every joke out of the park . It 's time for a career makeover for Bullock , who keeps squandering her girl-next-door likeability on trivial projects like this one . Once again , Bullock is willing but the material is weak . Does n't exactly turn things around for [ Bullock ] , but it 's funny enough and agreeable enough to at least start her on the road back . Its story is far from logical , let alone realistic , yet we laugh and completely buy into the fun . Completely devoid of wit or grace , but heavy on straining obviousness . Seems happily , deliberately second-rate , as if its ideal audience consisted of weary airline passengers . Truly , we have mined the beauty pageant satire to death , have we not ? Sandra Bullock is in a class of her own and it 's only partly a matter of beauty . Perhaps the larger part is that shining , irresistible personality that lights a room , a runway , a silver screen . She can get you interested in the phone directory . Decidedly inconsistent . 	Though critics say Bullock is funny and charming , she ca n't overcome a bad script that makes the movie feel too much like a fluffy , unoriginal sitcom .
batman forever What a mess ! You can tell that a series is transforming to a product when the original creative people start having less and less to do with the new chapters . Boring and near-unwatchable ; its title sums it up with cruel accuracy . Where is Tim Burton when you need him ? Has n't aged very well . Kilmer 's appeal in the role may be partially due to the fact that his actual public persona resembles Bruce Wayne more closely than that of any other Bat-thespian . This loud and boisterous comic book confidential is serviceable enough to satisfy . It 'll pass the time , but it wo n't fire your imagination . This would only appeal to die-hard fans of Batman . Then again , it might make die-hard fans cry . It 's great bubble gum for the eyes . 	Loud , excessively busy , and often boring , Batman Forever nonetheless has the charisma of Jim Carrey and Tommy Lee Jones to offer mild relief .
waking life Animation serves the dialogue in this movie as it served the music in `` Fantasia ... '' The monologues themselves are like jazz improvisations , wildly playful ... little more than isolated -- and not terribly fulfilling -- masturbation Like My Dinner with Andre and other appallingly smart movies , this one reminded me that I need to read more books and watch less television . Truly a one-of -a-kind movie . It 's like being in a college bar and listening to your companion blathering on about the secrets of the world . My companion did enjoy it , and my friend with a degree in philosophy will also probably enjoy it , but overall I found it pretentious , tiresome , pedantic , and one-note . Worth it just to watch , this one 's destined for midnight art-house screenings for years to come . a commercial ripoff designed to confuse art-house patrons It reminded me of college . A breath of fresh air . 	The talky , animated Waking Life is a unique , cerebral experience .
hilary and jackie The story is told in such a chopped-up way that it often seems pointless and certainly devoid of much-needed editing . A compelling film ! What we never discover - and it is a fatal lapse in films like this - is why music has so seized Jackie , why it is important for her to be an artist , at the risk of her sanity . A compelling look at the life of a classical musician as well as the lasting effects of sibling rivalry . One of the best films of the year . An emotionally gripping tale about obsession , family and love . The acting by Emily Watson and Rachel Griffiths , playing Jackie and Hilary , respectively , as adults , is first-rate . This is as rich and powerful a film as has been released in 1998 ! A thought-provoking and poignant ode to Jackie du Pre 's life . As exhilarating , passionate and profound as the music it celebrates . A good , if draining , film . 	Brilliant performances , lush cinematography , and complex storytelling deserve audience 's attention .
the salvation Worth seeing just for the faces , starting with Mads Mikkelsen as the suffering hero , then moving on to Jeffrey Dean Morgan as the rotten , savvy heavy , Eva Green as the mutilated woman , and Jonathan Pryce as the craven mayor . It is not a particularly light-hearted Western but it 's also neither portentous nor pretentious , and it does n't wear out its welcome . If The Salvation is not a perfect film , it 's pretty damn close to being one . There 's no harmonica-flavored faux-Morricone score , no cutesy references ; this is n't an homage , but a director putting an outmoded genre style to work in a brisk , violent frontier flick . More Sergio Leone than John Ford , it 's a visually expansive compendium of revenge-movie cliches suffused with Scandinavian angst -- not a spaghetti western , but sort of a cheesy Danish one . `` The Salvation '' is one of those movies that deservedly ( and desperately ) requires a do-over . Unfortunately , what you see is what you get . Even when we know the familiar iconography and storytelling tropes of old American classics that are thundering toward us , it 's great to see them again . ... a loving and in fact overly adulatory genre film which is not so much a take on the revenge Western as a deeply faithful recreation of it , at times so faithful as to veer dangerously close to pastiche . Writer-director Kristian Levring says there are 62 different references to classic Westerns in his own oater `` The Salvation . '' Perhaps the greatest compliment I can pay his film is that I never looked for them . I was too busy enjoying the film . The movie is boringly violent and glum , but as a mute widow with a killer glare , the inimitable Eva Green provides its one shard of campy color . 	It 's all but impossible to add anything new or fresh to the traditional Western , but -- thanks in no small part to Mads Mikkelson 's performance -- The Salvation comes close .
lara croft tomb raider the cradle of life It 's all a confection , but the plot is tight , Jolie is hot , and I 'll probably see the next one , too . For a movie based on a video game , the story is as far-fetched and the characters as one-dimensional as one might expect . Diverting but far from memorable . A film as boring as its title is grammatically incorrect and long . Starts strong , ends weak . Seems like a colossally bad movie , but in reality it 's just not colossal enough . For every scene of National Geographic -grand photography and showy action stuntwork put together by chick-action veteran director Jan De Bont , a little bit of Jolie 's old dangerousness goes missing . Sure it 's hardcore dumb but its so amusing plundering this tomb that you wo n't notice ( or care ) how well the makers raided your wallet . If you 're a fan of hers you 'll be able to find some enjoyment in this movie , but not as much as she seems to be having while making them . Jolie does her best , delivering her mediocre lines like they were the cleverest writing in the history of cinema , but goodwill for the star only carries a film so far . 	Though the sequel is an improvement over the first movie , it 's still lacking in thrills .
the impossible 2012 While the final third of the film feels forced , its emotional power comes earlier - in the catastrophe of the tsunami , the immediate aftermath and random acts of heroism . What reeks most about The Impossible is that it mistakes adventurous titillation for humanitarian mourning . A sham realist 's disaster movie , tackily insulting the deaths of 300,000 people by reducing the horrors of the Indian Ocean tsunami to a series of genre titillations . ... veers between being overwhelming and overwrought . In the end , Bayona 's film is more frustrating and exhausting than inspiring . If you 're familiar with the true story on which 'The Impossible ' is based , you 'll know a little about the finale . In case you do n't , I 'm not going to spoil this real-life disaster movie about the effects of the 2004 Pacific tsunami on a family of five . ... a brilliant disaster film and a refreshing recalibration from those of the sensational sort . An intense and compelling family melodrama from Spanish director Juan Antonio Bayona that sets a new standard for disaster cinema . Kind of offensive when you think about it . Takes dicey materialthe story of one privileged family 's suffering during the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunamiand transcends its political incorrectness by focusing on the human condition . 	The screenplay is n't quite as powerful as the direction or the acting , but with such an astonishing real-life story at its center , The Impossible is never less than compelling .
fisher king A modern epic that fuses myth with hard-edged reality , it 's a one-of-a-kind , thoroughly engaging experience . As always , Williams turns romance into slush , but Gilliam reigns it in with his mad and magical design . As original as Gilliam is as a filmmaker , he too falls victims to Hollywood cliches as far as the portrait of the homeless is concerned ( here Robin Williams ) -- they are either mad saints or misfit geniuses So what if it 's not perfect ? It 's magic . The Fisher King emphasizes the purpose of fairy tales in our lives , and the way a fantasy can help us see reality more clearly . Terry Gilliam is one of the movies ' most fascinating and frustrating directors . The Fisher King is one of Gilliam 's best films , and I find it strange that it is his most commercial . Gilliam goes overboard . All the clever bits wear out their welcome The Fisher King has two actors at the top of their form , and a compelling , well-directed and well-produced story . Visually impressive , frequently pretentious , and extremely fluid as narrative ( the 137 minutes sail by effortlessly ) , this mythic comedy-drama presents Gilliam as half seer , half snake-oil salesman and defies you to sort out which is which . 	An odd but affecting mixture of drama , comedy and fantasy , The Fisher King manages to balance moving performances from Robin Williams and Jeff Bridges with director Terry Gilliam 's typically askew universe .
west of memphis And justice for all ? Hardly . The most intriguing and worthy aspect of this accomplished documentary is that it never lets anyone forget the biggest tragedy of the many threaded through this story - the helpless children who never deserved the brutal fate handed to them . [ A ] first-rate investigative docu on the notorious West Memphis Three case , its questionable prosecution and its dubious resolution . Corruption , self-interest and rampant bigotry are so clearly portrayed in this riveting documentary that if it does n't make you angry , maybe there 's something wrong with you . A gripping documentary . Diligent , complex and justly indignant . The intelligent storytelling , wise use of access and emotional depth that separates West of Memphis from other documentaries about the murders in Robin Hood Hills , also elevates it to required viewing . `` West of Memphis '' becomes a greatest-hits concert of prosecutorial misconduct , and you 'll agree when the film asserts that prosecutors knew they had the wrong guys . [ West of Memphis ] is a captivating albeit disturbing look at failed justice and the search for the truth ... do not miss this film ! While the `` Paradise Lost '' films captured events as they unfolded in the heat of battle , `` West of Memphis '' has the luxury of at least partial closure . 	Both a sobering look at a true crime story and a scathing indictment of the American justice system , West of Memphis is a real-life horror story told with fury and compassion .
the sapphires 2012 The end result is sweet , sincere , sentimental and spirited , ensuring The Sapphires is a certain crowd-pleaser . The Sapphires is a genuine crowd pleaser that is filled with great tunes , entertaining performances and heartfelt scenes . It 's the musical numbers and the mighty lungs of Australian Idol winner Jessica Mauboy that make this one of the feel-good movies of the year . The mood is so charming and the music so inspiring that you continually cut it a break . Fittingly for a movie featuring lots of great soul music , The Sapphires is filled with soul and sings from the heart . A rousing soundtrack helps to compensate for some of the historical embellishments in this Australian crowd-pleaser . Harmless , eschewing provocation in favour of a genuine entertainment factor , and preferring to tell its worthy story in terms of characters and their personal relationships . If you want a feel-good home-grown movie , this is the film for you . `` Sapphires , '' which was inspired by a true story , is propelled by a strong sense of music 's power to connect people and change lives . A very conventional story of a '60s Australian girl group gains extra power from its context and setting in this fact-based story set to the beat of Motown soul . 	While it 's plenty predictable and sentimental , The Sapphires also has an irresistible feel-good vibe , winning music and charming performances to spare .
prisoners 2013 Begins as a story that has intriguing and seriously complex moral and ethical implications before giving way to what is a fairly by-the-numbers , beat-the-clock serial-killer thriller . Hugh Jackman and co-star Jake Gyllenhaal lead a superb cast -- and score career bests -- in this provocative tale of abducted children and parents pushed beyond limits . Prisoners is cruel and unusual punishment . The film not only holds the viewer 's focus to the very end , but manages to do so in a genuinely innovative yet comfortingly recognizable way . What makes Prisoners more potent than its oft-implausible mystery should allow is the way Villeneuve lingers over the textures of a terrible event . `` Prisoners '' is gripping and exceptionally well made , but I found it relentless-too bleak for my taste ... Villeneuve also sprinkles in religious overtones and complex dilemmas that make this feel more like a morality play than a Hollywood thriller . Prisoners is one of the most contemplative and fulfilling films of the year . It may be lengthy , but the performances are outstanding and the journey is never not intriguing . This film haunted me for days and weeks after seeing it , and the feeling still lingers . The film is like a lean cut of meat , with all the fat trimmed off and the rest providing the necessary protein to keep functioning . 	Prisoners has an emotional complexity and a sense of dread that makes for absorbing ( and disturbing ) viewing .
serving sara Director Reginald Hudlin and screenwriters Jay Scherick and David Ronn never seem to have settled on a comic tone , with painfully uneven results . Neither Perry nor Hurley displays a gift for romantic nonsense , and it 's difficult to detect any real or faked sexual chemistry between the two stars . The plot fluctuations unfold as predictably as any other cross-country buddy-buddy flick you care to mention . A supposed neo-screwball romp that ends up feeling like an episode of Friends set in Texas crossed with an Estee Lauder shoot . Serving Sara is merely a serving of average , forgettable Hollywood fare . As a romantic couple , Perry and Hurley have all the chemistry of roadkill and a bran muffin . [ There 's ] nary a laugh to be found . Stars Matthew Perry and Elizabeth Hurley illicit more than a chuckle , and more jokes land than crash , but ultimately Serving Sara does n't distinguish itself from the herd . I do n't know what they 're Serving Sara , but I 'm sending it back to the kitchen . The picture , scored by a perversely cheerful Marcus Miller accordion/harmonica/banjo abomination , is a monument to bad in all its florid variety . 	A romantic comedy that 's neither funny nor particularly romantic , Serving Sara is a forgettable time waster .
10009598-surrogates Has all the get-up-and-go of a dead battery . ... viewers with even a passing interest in science fiction will find something worth embracing here . Like the titular avatars in this graphic novel adaptation , `` Surrogates '' is a rote whodunit masquerading as a techno-thriller . Surely Isaac Asimov , Philip K. Dick and Stan Winston must be tossing in their grave for what all their creative and innovative ideas have wrought . High concept and high budget , Surrogates adds astounding techno magic to ideas mooted in films like Multiplicity , Total Recall and I Robot , but fails to achieve the humanity the film champions Like Blade Runner re-imagined by a twelve-year-old . Surrogates establishes an intriguing premise for exploring a world in which virtual life trumps physical reality , but the thematic potential is squandered in favor of a by-the-numbers police procedural . Surrogates favours action-packed , empty-headed spectacle over credible , coherent plot and the brief running time leaves you wondering what they left on the cutting room floor . Wasting the chance to be a great , resonant SF metaphor , Surrogates ultimately proves as bland and empty as its pretty mechanical protagonists . The action scenes feel curtailed and a little cheesy , but it has a veneer of day-glo creepiness which holds the attention . 	Though it sports a slick look and feel , Surrogates fails to capitalize on a promising premise , relying instead on mindless action and a poor script .
ice princess Even for an ugly-duckling-makes-good fairy tale , Ice Princess seems to stretch believability a tad too far . A histria e a protagonista tm seu charme , mas a direo esquemtica de Fywell e o roteiro repleto de clichs praticamente anulam o potencial do filme . Manages to execute surprisingly well . The movie paints such a gentle picture of the figure skating world that neither we nor Joan can stay resentful for long . The movie carries out its generic , almost ritualized narrative with honest sentiment and engaging warmth . Might have better served the young girls who will love it , and their pushy parents , if Casey had been a little less perfect . Likable but poorly crafted . The movie works . I started by clicking off the obligatory scenes , and then somehow the film started to get to me , and I was surprised how entertained I was . The delight of Ice Princess is that there 's more to every character than meets the eye . This is a safe , edgeless cinematic after-school special . 	This likable Disney film gets points for effort , but ca n't stick the landing when it comes to originality .
rocket science Rocket Science is smart , funny , and genuine . It avoids a pat Hollywood ending for something richer and more satisfying . Here 's a twist -- an American high-school movie that has a brain . Blitz let the story tell itself in Spellbound ; this time , he 's trying too hard . ... eventually comes off as an engaging and surprisingly affecting little drama ... I thought it was cloying , self-congratulatory and irritating . Enjoyably offbeat comedy drama with likeable characters and a terrific script , though its relentlessly unconventional nature is ultimately frustrating . Lovely performances all round create small-town competitiveness , frustrations and aspirations . A quirky comedy-drama that gets the bulk of its humor from the well-placed non sequitur . It never seems to be going where you think it is , and that includes its oddly endearing dialogue . It may gross as little as Welcome to the Dollhouse or as much as Clueless , but whichever it does , it 's in the same league . It 's a high-concept idea that Blitz executes without the usual payoffs . 	Though Rocket Science appears to be a typically quirky indie , the well-rounded performances and director Jeffrey Blitz 's clear affection for his characters gives the film its proper human spark .
ice age 2 A sequel with more humor , topicality , intelligence and appeal [ than the original ] . Ice Age : The Meltdown is a considerable improvement over its predecessor ... As before , Scrat ( again voiced by Chris Wedge , who this time did not direct ) steals the show . The so-so dialogue is balanced by the film 's often hilarious physical humor ... . It 's the film 's brawn , not its brains , that make it a survivor . The Meltdown is at least faithful to its predecessor in the sense of being equally as underwhelming . The animated work is generally first-rate , which is good , because some of the one-liners date to the ice age and beyond . [ I ] f your offspring complain about being bored ... congratulate them on growing up and developing taste . meltdown - indeed . It might not be a classic for the eons , but Ice Age : The Meltdown is so delightfully fun , funny and action-packed that it 's hard to find cracks in its slick surface . Ice Age : The Meltdown acknowledges something the Bush administration does n't believe in : global warming . Impressively animated , family-friendly comedy with likeable characters and some terrific comic set-pieces . 	Despite its impressive animation and the hilarious antics of the saber-toothed squirrel Scrat , Ice Age 2 : The Meltdown comes up short on the storytelling front .
call me kuchu 2011 Horrific and uplifting ... A lot of this documentary plays like a horror film . If anyone had any doubts as to the insidious nature of organised religion , this would be a good place to start . A timely , gut-wrenching but ultimately hopeful work . Well made , vitally important documentary that is by turns shocking , rage-inducing and utterly devastating . Equally gut-wrenching and inspiring , the documentary Call Me Kuchu beams right from Uganda , the global hypocenter in the ongoing and intensifying struggle over LGBT rights . The efforts of its subjects are inspirational , and could prompt further worldwide attention and support for their cause . Call Me Kuchu , a documentary about homophobia in Uganda , lifts a rock in that country and discovers the insect life ruling it . The film is impassioned and powerful but not frenzied , riling the viewers ' emotions without giving in to them itself . There is eye-opening footage of American missionaries declaring Uganda Ground Zero in a biblical war and powerful personal stories of individuals facing violence , intimidation and hatred . It will be alarming to many to see how easily hatred is stirred up by local media , but also rewarding to see that Kato 's fight for his own human rights has been ably captured for posterity . 	Alternately horrific and uplifting , Call Me Kuchu exposes heinous systematic brutality with a clear eye and admirable precision .
boogie nights Os dilogos so afiadssimos , e Paul Thomas Anderson permite que seus atores se sintam livres para interpretar , sem preocupaes com questes tcnicas . Comparisons are invidious , but inescapable : Boogie Nights is the most stunningly accomplished , attention-grabbing movie by a sophomore director since Pulp Fiction . 'You 're a star , ' goes the film 's final line . Truer words can not be spoken about Paul Thomas Anderson . Anderson draws us in subtly , using the perhaps-surprising amount of humour inherent in his material . With Boogie Nights we know we 're not just watching episodes from disparate lives but a panorama of recent social history , rendered in bold , exuberant colors . Boogie Nights never exactly recovers the tightness of its first hour , but it certainly does n't descend into permanent disorganization as some critics have charged . Already there are signs that Anderson could be our next Martin Scorsese . Boogie Nights at heart is the story about a group of characters and the de facto family that emerges from their relationship . A stunning ensemble of actors is essential to creating this seamless world . The film is bemused and entertained , as we are , by this pack of sexual extremists , and the eye it casts on them is both benevolent and wry . Cautionary story-telling rarely gets this grim , electrifying and compelling . 	Grounded in strong characters , bold themes , and subtle storytelling , Boogie Nights is a groundbreaking film both for director P.T . Anderson and star Mark Wahlberg .
0814255 What 's really lacking in The Lightning Thief is a genuine sense of wonder , the same thing that brings viewers back to Hogwarts over and over again . Not bad , but JK Rowling can rest easy . Percy Jackson , you are no Harry Potter . You are not fit to walk in a hobbit 's wake . The disappearance of lightning simply is not interesting , and Percy Jackson and the Olympians sounds more like a '70s funk band than a kid 's series . Unfortunately , the movie lacks that good old Potter charm , trading Harry 's dark whimsy for a handful of CGI magic beans . An imaginative , if simplistic , visit to classical Greek mythology , an archetypal quest by a lad with paternal issues . Of all the would-be Potter projects that have hit the screen over the years , this is one of more polished and enjoyable ones . This is what a quality book adaptation should do , stand on it 's own , while making you want to explore more . But JESUS ! Can we stop the Apple Product Placements ! I do n't want to see a freaking iPhone in a Fantasy film ! ! ! It 's more a list of ingredients than a movie-magic potion to enjoy from start to finish . Whether audiences will get behind The Lightning Thief is hard to predict . Overall , it 's an entertaining introduction to a promising new world -- but will the consuming shadow of Potter be too big to break free of ? 	Though it may seem like just another Harry Potter knockoff , Percy Jackson benefits from a strong supporting cast , a speedy plot , and plenty of fun with Greek mythology .
friday night Probably ... too low-keyed and deliberately paced for some , but its rewards are ample for the patient and attentive . Ziplessness has rarely looked so inviting , nor have a couple of actors seemed so much like real people . Part tone poem , part love song , and all pure magic . The film 's complex underlying sound mix ... adds a haunting texture to what could have been the slightest of stories about a woman 's ephemeral victory over emotional numbness . This one does n't have the crackle of Denis 's best efforts ... but it quietly rewards those who have enormous patience . Denis imbues the simple details of a one-night stand with powerful eroticism and humane understanding . A very dreamlike experience ( especially if you fall asleep while you 're watching it ) . ... if you go with the ebb and flow , Friday Night can be as intoxicating as a good cocktail . Beguiling and wonderful . [ a ] gloriously uplifting work of pure cinema 	A dreamy , visually poetic film .
man who fell to earth The real stranger from another planet is Nicolas Roeg . By turns , creepy and cheesy , literate and vapid . It has lost none of its ability to startle all these years later , and for that alone it deserves respect . The film was made in 1976 , but its message about the cutthroat realities of industry is even more relevant today Undeniably long , Panavision-wide , but of questionable depth . Roeg 's style ... suits `` The Man Who Fell to Earth 's '' alienation and gives a hallucinatory sheen to the tale . Still as mad and brilliantly infuriating as ever . The Man Who Fell to Earth today plays like a movie that fell from the sky , origins unknown . If you want to go into another world in which imagination leads you into recesses and crevices you have n't visited , The Man Who Fell To Earth is a fantastic guide . The cinematography by Anthony B. Richmond still looks fantastic and Bowie 's androgynous screen presence is never less than fascinating . 	Filled with stunning imagery , The Man Who Fell to Earth is a calm , meditative film that profoundly explores our culture 's values and desires .
et the extraterrestrial Do n't forget to bring tissues . The film remains the kind of unabashed delight that can make even the most cynical filmgoer feel like a kid wrapped up in the fantasy of it all . What 's perhaps most amazing about E.T. , what distinguishes it from many of the other fantasy films of its era , is its ability to put an audience under a spell of childlike wonderment without infantilizing it . We have yet to recover from his revelation : that there is nothing more real than sitting in your own back yard -- waiting for the unreal to come down , take a handful of candy , and fly you to the moon . It 's also a better -- no , make that far better -- movie than nearly everything else that 's currently in theaters . If we approach with sympathy and curiosity , we will be rewarded with same . And our souls , not to mention our bicycles , will soar to the heavens . The movie is emotionally tumultuous and evenhanded and serene . A masterpiece that deserves to be seen and appreciated on a big screen . An astonishingly warm and enjoyable family film full of genuine sweetness and heart . One of Spielberg 's two or three masterpieces , an extremely satisfying sci-fi fable . 	Playing as both an exciting sci-fi adventure and a remarkable portrait of childhood , Steven Spielberg 's touching tale of a homesick alien remains a piece of movie magic for young and old .
friday night lights Friday Night Lights is a movie that gets the gridiron action exactly right , but does not dig deeply enough into the lives of the players off the field . Does a terrific job of exposing the pressure , intensity and , yes , near-insanity of high-school football in the West Texas town of Odessa . You 'll leave the theater somewhat emotionally spent -- feeling like you 've been tackled by a 220-pound linebacker -- but it 's worth the ride . One of the best sports movies ever . Might very well be doomed to comparison solely with other sports movies . But at least within that realm it looks pretty darn good . Tells an engrossing story with such conviction and honesty , embedded in a surplus of stylistic flourishes , that it becomes one of the best sports movies in recent memory . Substitutes slick , cynical point-scoring for insight . Had Billy Bob Thornton not been so good in so many films , people would be talking about this as his greatest role . Friday Night Lights can be seen as Hoosiers in shoulder pads , especially in the emotional connection between the townspeople and the team . It honors the book of the same name . A very good movie . 	An acute survey of the football-obsessed heartland that succeeds as both a stirring drama and a rousing sports movie .
sunset boulevard What 's not recognized enough is the indelible , self-sickened performance of William Holden as Desmond 's boy-toy/hired hack . This cold-blooded satire is at once subtle and savage . Gloria Swanson and William Holden give definitive , Oscar-nominated performances as the fading star and hack writer , respectively , in Bily Wilder 's darker than dark comedy about the inner workings of Hollywood at a crucial phase of the industry 's change . The best film to capture the transitory nature of film fame . The best thing about watching old movies is discovering the ones that feel so modern that , with a few touches here and there , barely altering the original product , they could actually fit right in with the quality movies of today . No other motion picture about Hollywood comes near Billy Wilder 's searing , uncompromising and utterly fascinating portrait of the film community . Rarely is fiction shot through so glitteringly with real life . Caustic , scalding , and forever fabulous . An uncompromising study of American decadence displaying a sad , worn , methodical beauty few films have had since the late twenties . This legendary tale of Hollywood glory and decay still provides a biting portrait of the Dream Factory . 	Arguably the greatest movie about Hollywood , Billy Wilder 's masterpiece Sunset Boulevard is a tremendously entertaining combination of noir , black comedy , and character study .
young victoria Ultimately , it is this mature understanding of the couple 's relationship , which goes beyond politics and romantic love , that makes The Young Victoria affecting . Nothing much new will be learned , but the journey along the way is beautiful to behold . All the period trappings -decor , duds , dances - are immaculate , though presented in the manner of a set-text reconstruction rather than a living , breathing drama . An elegant , entertaining , informative picture with a gallery of vivid supporting turns , this provisionally crowns the winning Blunt as a Brit-pic star - but it skimps a bit on the bodice-ripping , blood and thunder . The Young Victoria is a very well-made if not especially memorable picture , moving with all the grace and steadfastness of a waltz Victoria and Albert share , but absent any urgency or anything particularly exclamatory . Emily Blunt 's Vic is as feisty as Alistair Darling and the story does n't give her enough to get excited about . Blunt strikes me as the real deal : languid but biting , like Jeanne Moreau , yet able to command a scene while somehow appearing to shift to one side ( as Moreau would never do ) and observe with a skeptic 's smile . Blunt and Friend strike a few flinty sparks , and Julian Fellowes 's script has its share of dry-as-dust witticisms . Most of the time , though , it 's a stiff pageant . Full of intriguing details about Queen Victoria 's early reign , although it only lightly examines the political intrigue and romantic melodrama A passable depiction of what looks to be a rather unspectacular slice of history . 	Emily Blunt shines as Victoria in this romantic but plodding royal portrait .
small time crooks The talented comedian Tracey Ullman carries this comedy with her lan and spunky contentiousness . It 's ripe with zingers . Allen does n't push the material as far or as hard as he might have . Sweet and affirmative . The film has plenty of laughs , delivers Woody firmly tucked back in his humor saddle . This hit-and-miss effort is a bit like watching your favorite home-run hitter trying to play out his career on two bad knees . Small Time Crooks is appealing . This is vintage Allen , his powers intact after a string of increasingly cranky , creaky films in the last few years . A welcome return to the Wacky Woody . A slight and competent movie . 	Woody Allen rises from his recent slump with Small Time Crooks . A simple , funny movie , Crooks proves Allen still has the touch that made his name synonymous with off-beat comedy .
1071267-arrival The Arrival is part sci-fi action flick , part conspiracy thriller , and all preposterous nonsense . It 's a strong , lean piece of writing that moves quickly . Nothing is wasted , and nothing happens the way you 'd expect . A hokey summer entertainment that is full of big machinery , satellite dishes du jour , long embarrassing close-ups and gaps in logic through which large UFOs could hurtle . What it lacks in sophistication ( everything ) , it partly makes up for in sheer gall . A good premise , hampered by a weak ending . The aliens-among-us plot gets a very entertaining and inventive update . Sheen is working outside of his element , but the energy he puts into his multidimensional character helps keep the story moving . A movie that shoehorns a blunt warning into its silly but entertaining story of a young radio astronomer 's one-man battle against sinister extraterrestrials . It 's like `` Stakeout '' with a glossier Sheen . You know a movie 's in trouble when it 's called The Arrival and nothing arrives -- the film 's aliens are already here . 	Stylish and inventive , The Arrival offers a surprisingly smart spin on the alien invasion genre .
the trip to italy 2014 It 's still a distinct pleasure watching banter between comedic actors this good . In Pompeii they confront their own mortality and Brydon does his man in a box bit , never more appropriately . `` The Trip to Italy '' may not quite measure up to `` The Godfather , Part II , '' the platinum standard for movie sequels , but it 's very funny , and slightly serious , all the same . Better than the first perhaps because the cultural references are tied more organically to the emotional state of their characters . Or perhaps it 's because `` The Trip to Italy '' is just funnier , tighter , and more focused . The Trip To Italy ends abruptly , but for almost two distinctly pleasurable hours , the film lets audiences be third parties in Coogan and Brydon 's dinner conversation . We know the recipe now-Winterbottom never departs from it , giving this installment slightly less kick-but the guys have curious appetites they barely understand . The sumptuous views of gorgeous locations and savory foods combine with the improvised dialogue and behavior to give these movies a sensuous sort of spontaneity . The script 's guideposts are tighter , and both men are even more on their game . Dueling comics and great scenery If you go in for allusive British humor that builds slowly from dry to uproarious , as executed by two absolute masters of the form , `` The Trip To Italy '' will work for you , I believe . 	While perhaps not quite as fresh as Coogan and Brydon 's original voyage in The Trip , The Trip to Italy still proves a thoroughly agreeable sequel .
aberdeen Grips us precisely because its actors are so utterly absorbed in their roles , so unfettered and nakedly expressive . Skarsgard 's remarkable , drunk or sober . [ Headey 's ] performance not only gives definition and emotional force to a shapeless movie , but it 's the kind of star turn that will have Hollywood producers and agents engaged in kickboxing death matches to ink her . Difficult to watch , but it 's also impossible to take your eyes off the screen . Clean and transparent , with no movie director tricks . Moland brings to his film a sensitivity to the complexities of evolving relationships . A little European indie pic that digs down to the roots of its characters , describing people 's lives and relationships in ways that resonate with clarity and heart . Intelligent , moving and often beautifully photographed . Directed with a fierce honesty by Norwegian Hans Petter Moland . It 's a twisted , very human ride where the remarkable , effortless acting of both Headey and Skarsgard is rich with sympathy , heartbreak and morbid humor . 	Though the characters are difficult to watch at times , Aberdeen burns with ferocious honesty and strong performances .
chicago That rare thing : a nutritious hard candy . Chicago has been brought to the screen by first-time movie director Rob Marshall , who has shot it like one of those commercials for Broadway musicals , the ones that run on the late news in New York City . Renee Zellweger and Catherine Zeta-Jones put on quite a show in Rob Marshall 's dazzling cinematic rethinking of the 1975 Kander and Ebb musical directed by Bob Fosse . In the rousing and rhythmically spry Chicago , Marshall delivers a finger-snapping gem that radiates jubilance and promotes its lyrical spirit -- its bounciness and endless energy will have audiences giddy with delight . Some great songs , Zellweger and Zeta-Jones sharpening their claws on prison bars and Richard Gere running around in boxer shorts and a flat cap . Two out of three ai n't bad . It 's not nearly as rousing as the Broadway revival ( then again , it 's rare that the cinematic version of a musical comes close to the stage incarnation ) , but , for those unable or unwilling to see a live production , it represents a sparkling replacement . A funny , rousing crowd-pleaser . Chicago lacks heart , but has a great look and more than enough glitz to go around . Chockfull of so many musical numbers that you might want to sit in the front row so you can kick your feet along to the beat without knocking out the person ahead of you ! I 'd give real money to see the perpetrators of Chicago torn apart by dingoes . 	A rousing and energetic adaptation of the Broadway musical , Chicago succeeds on the level pure spectacle , but provides a surprising level of depth and humor as well .
into great silence Charming documentary on monastic existence . Such a poetic essay on the slowed-down rhythms of life , that its quiet pleasures carry the viewer along at a pace commensurate with the monks ' own unhurried sense of time . Though there are dozens of images here that you might want as a computer-screen saver , Into Great Silence does not add up to a valuable or engrossing documentary . Have I got a movie for you . Into Great Silence is a two-hour-and-40-minute documentary about monks , and it is one of the transporting film experiences of this or any other year . At once eerie , picaresque , evocative , and utterly alien to the reality most viewers inhabit , Into Great Silence is a daring and breathtakingly constructed documentary dream . The only place the camera does n't go is the brewery . That 's where the monks bottle their world famous Chartreuse liqueur , which sustains them financially . Navigates to a state of both enlivened permanence and vibrant grace . As a place to enter and meditate , Into Great Silence is imminently worthy , but as a documentary , it does n't do enough to probe the meaning of the quotation Grning returns to repeatedly : `` Oh Lord , you have seduced me , and I was seduced . '' A non-verbal contemplation of time in itself and of man 's place in that dimension , 'Into Great Silence ' is striking visually but a trial for viewers . A 162-minute journey into a cloistered world of ritualistic repetition , always with the promise of revelation and transcendence . 	A meditative , deliberately paced doc capable of absorbing patient viewers into a whole different world .
texas chainsaw massacre Remakes are invariably a letdown ; this one , at least , does n't slip too far . The blood and other body parts are plentiful , and some special-effects shots ( like a pull-back through a woman 's freshly cored skull ) are beyond gratuitous . If you 're into this stuff , it 's a fun , scary time . Rather than exhilaration , this bilious film offers only entrapment and despair . It 's about as much fun as sitting in on an autopsy . It is , first and last , a hardcore genre movie . The teens are hot , horny and high . The massacr-teers are grotesque , angry and out for blood . The air hangs heavy with death . And you 're never quite sure what 's coming next . 'Inspired by a true story ' presumably adds to the sordid thrills ; maybe we should look forward to entertainments about Nazis torturing children . Redoes the original by making a weird mesh of old and new . Just as humorless as the original , but it 's also slicker , glossier and resoundingly artificial . An effectively scary slasher film . Gruesome enough ; what it lacks is a distinctive revolting personality of its own . 	An unnecessary remake that 's more gory and less scary than the original .
clockwork orange It demands thought , compels the attention , and refuses to be dismissed . A very bad film -- snide , barely competent , and overdrawn -- that enjoys a perennial popularity , perhaps because its confused moral position appeals to the secret Nietzscheans within us . A tight-fitting example of a neo-classic . Ambitious and stylized ( perhaps to a fault ) , Kubrick 's poignantly prophetic satire of crime and punishment , redemption and free will , is still much misunderstood by critics emphasizing its ultra-violence . It 's a very dark message , but maybe that 's why the film caught on as a video cult item in the 80s . Jarring , uncomfortable , surprisingly moving and ultimately unforgettable . Producer-director Stanley Kubrick 's adaptation of the Anthony Burgess novel is a strangely overwhelming experience % u2013 at time contemptible , and yet always valid in its sardonic outlook . The rare film that hits you in the head and stomach simultaneously . A sexless , inhuman film , whose power derives from a ruthless subordination of its content to the demands of telling a good story . Who else but Stanley Kubrick could successfully direct an ultra-stylish , sci-fi cult film about the impossibility of redemption in the absence of freely willed sin ? 	Disturbing and thought-provoking , A Clockwork Orange is a cold , dystopian nightmare with a very dark sense of humor .
i capture the castle These filmmakers have a deep appreciation for the source material , and if this sweet and funny film does n't get lost in the dog days of summer , perhaps they will bring a new generation into the I Capture the Castle fold . ... boasts a number of essential , if slightly twisted , fairy-tale elements that give the movie an engaging , slightly otherworldly air -- one that occasionally clashes with , but more often enhances , the all-too-human foibles at its heart . It may be best to think of I Capture the Castle as a kind of comfy chair with a few frayed edges and telltale leaks in its upholstery . Perfect furniture , in other words , for a lazy summer afternoon . Take your book-smart teenage daughters . A quirky story about young love in the 1930s and all of its intense aches and longings . Complicated family relationships , good performances , and the film is surprisingly funny ... an easy film to like . In a summer full of `` summer movies , '' I Capture the Castle is a fortress reminding you what is most real and important in life is within . Smith 's book is a charmer , but the keys to this Castle have been misplaced . Better on set-up than follow-through . A fresh reminder of the tart taste of first love and the disarming sweetness of becoming an adult . 	A handsome and charming adaptation of the novel .
superman ii By its very nature , the resulting film is severely compromised , but still rip-roaring , unpretentious entertainment . A definitive look at the strange , impossible love triangle of Clark Kent , Lois Lane and Superman not perfect , but in the annals of comic-book movies it remains an indispensable touchstone . Almost as fantastic as the original . I thought it was great when I was nine , but now ... oh my GOD ! The combination of Richard Donner 's superb original casting and visual attack with Lester 's wit and his ear for sound proves a pretty formidable alliance . Both Kidder and Reeve shine . Worthy follow up Witty , action-packed superadventure with big themes . A solid , classy , cannily constructed piece of entertainment which gets down to action almost immediately . Tighter , funnier , and generally better than its predecessor 	The humor occasionally stumbles into slapstick territory , and the special effects are dated , but Superman II meets , if not exceeds , the standard set by its predecessor .
1030887-punisher The only positive spin I can put on this movie is that if bad comic adaptations like it had n't been done in the late 1980s and early 1990s , Marvel never would have needed to have its current , high-quality big-screen resurgence . Often underrated comic-book adaptation that lacks the trademark skull logo but delivers the superhero presence that the Thomas Jane remake sadly lacks . Destructive , reprehensible , and marvellous fun . Marred by cheeseball sets and special effects , lame fight sequences , and some of the worst acting ever to disgrace the screen . A terrible one-man-army action flick . The 2004 version is far more effective . With origins in a Marvel Comics character , The Punisher is , as might be expected , two-dimensional . It maintained a tongue in cheek attitude toward all the violence and hokum , which made it comic book lite and easier to take . Carefully tended facial stubble trimmed to give him a skull-like appearance , Lundgren is truly impressive as a character defined by emotional emptiness . The real problem is that it just is n't very exciting . Much better than the 2004 version . A surprisingly potent blast of '80s action moviemaking . 	Despite the seemingly indestructible Dolph Lundgren with a crossbow , The Punisher is a boring one-man battle with never-ending action scenes .
wedding singer The almost never-miss comedy makes up for the unexceptionnal storyline , and Frank Coraci happens to be a skillful mainstream director . Sandler makes nice to please the female demographic . Adam Sandler 's basic schtick is his lack of talent . The film is just a trifle , but in the mid-winter cinematic wasteland , you have to grade on a curve . A simple love story from a simpler time , crafted as skillfully as ever . An enjoyable , nostalgic , and even a bit touching time at the movies . The ending is predictable , but the two stars are appealing , especially since Sandler actually tones down his usual obnoxious shtick . Supporting players are uniformly strong , and Coraci deserves much credit for exacting just the right degree of outrageousness without spinning into some wild orbit . Director Coraci has done a fine job re-creating and spoofing some of the cultural trends of the 1980s , a time in which yuppie-worship replaced hippie-adulation . The movie is a tame affair , shot on calm , manicured streets ; the interiors are decorated in pastels . 	It 's decidedly uneven -- and surprisingly sappy for an early Adam Sandler comedy -- but The Wedding Singer is also sweet , funny , and beguiling .
trainspotting It 's hard to recall a movie that etches the horrors of drug dependence more shatteringly than this British tragicomedy , which Danny Boyle has directed with ferocious energy . An unprecedented and unrivalled piece of entertainment . Brazen , hilarious , disgusting , audacious , altogether fresh . Put simply , Trainspotting is one of those films that gets the mixture just right . The dialogue , the music , the performances , the direction , the production values , the humor , the shock-value . Trainspotting is a singular sensation , a visionary knockout spiked with insight , wild invention and outrageous wit . Trainspotting , buoyed by a great Brit Pop soundtrack and Brian Tufano 's agile cinematography , captures the stoned-out , gut-churning experience of hardcore addiction with hallucinogenic acuity . Danny Boyle 's Trainspotting is a blast of ice-cold water across a sweaty brow ; it 's a lively , vibrant and pulsatingly addictive movie . This is probably the most honest movie ever made about drug addiction . Scabrous , brutal and hip , Trainspotting is a Clockwork Orange for the '90s . This might not be the first movie to get inside the mind of an addict , but it 's the only one that captures the life-consuming power of addiction in all its complexity . 	A brutal , often times funny , other times terrifying portrayal of drug addiction in Edinburgh . Not for the faint of heart , but well worth viewing as a realistic and entertaining reminder of the horrors of drug use .
10008423-cool school The Cool School is a history of the LA art scene which will be most interesting for those who are involved in it . The Cool School , a breezy , lively documentary about a thin slice of the Los Angeles fine art scene in the 1950s , is easy on the eyes , and the ears too . Morgan Neville 's 'The Cool School ' is a slickly packaged document of the burgeoning modern art scene in LA during the late '50s and early '60s which sadly submerges its fascinating subject matter in technical clutter and contrived set-ups . Documentarian Morgan Neville takes an appropriately lively , left-field approach to The Cool School 's eye-opening history of the Beat-era Left Coast art scene -- a lesser-known chapter in the story of American modern art . The Cool School is neither as lively nor as complete as it could be , but as an introduction to modern art , it 's a fine freshman course . Surf 's up in Southern California as the modern art world invades Nixonville and Reagan City in the 1950s . A fascinating look at the start of something big : modern art in Los Angeles . Sweeps you off your feet with quick-witted visuals and cleverly used archival footage . Occasionally too reverent , this remains an effective evocation of a vibrant and interesting art scene , not to mention a touching paean to lost youth . Definitely proves that , contrary to certain opinions , Los Angeles is not a cultural wasteland where fine art is concerned . No one emerges very well defined from this historical shuffle , but those who know the artists ' works , or names such as Hopps and Blum , but have never heard them speak , will find The Cool School absorbing and informative . 	A breezy and lively modern art documentary , revealing that LA is not a cultural wasteland when it comes to fine art .
tempest Julie Taymor 's The Tempest adapts Shakespeare to the screen with boldness and imagination . Bard buffs are likely to love it , despite the liberties it takes . A game cast including Helen Mirren , Russell Brand , Ben Whishaw and Tom Conti ca n't save this listing interpretation of the Shakespeare play . A pretty frustrating adaptation of Shakespeare 's play , one that dog-paddles around in ever-more-frenetic circles , searching for a way inside the material . Visuals evoke the themes of order and chaos , with steps vertiginously reaching up and Prospera 's mixture of natural material and tight , civilizing straps and stays . One is reminded of the `` Mystery Science Theater 3000 '' joke about one of the robots staging `` an all-furniture 'Hamlet ' '' -- it 's the sort of switcheroo that smacks more of desperation than of creativity and redefinition . A singular disappointment from Julie Taymor , who has failed to make this play sing on the screen . Shakepeare 's premise was leveraged more cleverly and thoughtfully on `` Lost . '' With so much going for it , why does The Tempest become a mere storm in a teacup ? The reasons are many . Smaller parts are n't on par with the lead role , and special effects are overdone and cheesy . At times , the essence of Shakespeare 's poetry is drowned out . Bold and ambitious , like all of Taymor 's movies , this Tempest is a failure on any level , especially a kitschy visual style that detracts attention from Shakespeare 's poignant text . 	Director Julie Taymor 's gender-swapping of roles and some frenzied special effects ca n't quite disguise an otherwise stagey , uninspired take on Shakespeare 's classic .
men who stare at goats does a slick job of putting assumptions of all types to the test , and resists the temptation to make sport of any of them while still retaining a sense of fun The smug , aren't-we-clever tone does n't invite us to react to what we 're seeing because the movie already has satisfied itself that it 's delightful . A serendipitous marriage of talent in which all hearts seem to beat as one . A laidback , slightly underwhelming farce on the madness of the military . The Men Who Stare at Goats meanders aimlessly without ever reaching a satisfying conclusion . The Men Who Stare at Goats has no edge . [ It ] is merely a slight , innocuous diversion . It depends on how tolerant you are of such meanderings as to how much you will enjoy it . As an insider , I know that GOATS is not 100 % true , but true enough to enjoy . Heslov 's directing debut proves that he 's a more skillful writer-producer than helmer : His anti-military satire is narratively and technically shapeless , with half of the text funny and witty and half flat and tedious . Despite a strong cast 's admirable efforts , though , this ends up as a bit of an ill-defined muddle that should have focused more on fact than quirkiness . Comes to us as the latest political satire to have inadvertently sliced off its own pair . 	Though The Men Who Stare at Goats is a mostly entertaining , farcical glimpse of men at war , some may find its satire and dark humor less than edgy .
bee movie The depth of talent in the cast and gag writing shines through , but it 's only just enough to take your mind off of the flat animation . Harmless fun for the whole family . Not only are the bees nonsensical , so is the plot , even grading on the fantasy curve . Jerry Seinfeld 's comic sensibility enlivens this tale of a bee who wants to fly by the seat of his pants . If only every bee were named 'Chris Rock ' the movie would have the stinging humor it sorely lacks . Bright , sunny and almost instantly forgettable , even Jerry Seinfeld ca n't stop Bee Movie from boldly going where far too many CGI animations have gone before . The most genuinely apian aspect of Bee Movie is that it spends a lot of its running time buzzing happily around , sniffing out fresh jokes wherever they may bloom . Certainly Bee Movie could 've been smarter , faster , and far cleverer , and it 's disappointing to watch Seinfeld settle for less . For a man who made a mint reveling in comedic risk on a weekly basis , his first movie lacks serious sting . Bee Movie feels phoned in on every level . This DreamWorks film is not the sliced-bread marvel it has spent an enormous amount of money pretending to be . But it must be said that Seinfeld 's script is a thing of wonder . 	Bee Movie has humorous moments , but its awkward premise and tame delivery render it mostly forgettable .
10008587-beverly hills chihuahua A state-of-the-art kid-pleaser for sure , but recession-weary parents will probably find it a mite obnoxious . Despite its superficial lip-service to self-actualization/realization , there has to be more to life than what Beverly Hills Chihuahua is putting out there , which is fit for neither man nor beast . In less enlightened times those responsible for making animals talk would have been burnt at the stake as sorcerers . That 's why those times were known as 'the good old days . ' The film is Beverly Hills Chihuahua . The audience is the fire hydrant . Disney is now content with the likes of the wholly inoffensive , uninventive Beverly Hills Chihuahua , whose canine antics will divert undemanding youngsters and adults who believe the simple absence of profanity , sex and violence counts as a virtue . Could Cheech Marin ever have predicted that he would once again appear in a movie that features his signature song , `` Low Rider , '' and that it would be such a dog ? Chihuahua turns out to be a pretty good family comedy that is more than the sum of its effects . The story 's a bit dog-eared , but the voice cast adds plenty of energetic bite . Awwww , chihuahua ! A single moment of magical realism shows the Babe-that-might-have-been , very charitably speaking , had the makers of this doggie adventure-comedy chosen a more daring and creative route ... 	Despite hitting some sweet notes , Beverly Hills Chihuahua is little more than disposable family entertainment .
guerrilla the taking of patty hearst The great achievement of Guerrilla : The Taking of Patty Hearst , besides its unearthing of gripping archival material and its groundbreaking new interviews , is its insistence on context rather than sensationalism . A meticulous and often fascinating reconstruction of a chaotic time . A stunningly bizarre , stranger-than-fiction tale of the stumbling of a revolution and the semi-automatic transformation of a princess . fascinating stuff from start to finish As an indicting work of journalism , it 's very entertaining . Urban terrorism inspired by Robin Hood . One of the things the film captures most astutely is the beginnings of the American media frenzy that has become a staple of the news cycle . The footage is astonishing , revealing the events of 30 years ago and some scary truths about where the world is today . A gripping documentary that uses voluminous period evidence ... to brilliantly reconstruct the entire freak event . Interviews with two former SLA members provide this recounting with much-needed depth . 	Guerilla is a riveting documentary that chronicles in enlightening fashion the 1974 kidnapping of heiress Patty Hearst .
taxidermia For those who can handle it , a viewing is an experience not soon forgotten . It breaks taboos with an insouciance that makes Last Tango look like Mary Poppins . What is most impressive is Palfi 's imagination and the way he develops it on the screen . Gross-out it may be , but there 's rather more to it . Director Gyrgy Plfi is a talent to watch with your fingers over your eyes , but he 's also a proper filmmaker , fascinated by his characters ' hereditary fetishes and finding consistently clever ways to surprise us with his camera . Nothing if not an intriguing failure . One does not care about what happens so much as one grows increasingly alarmed at where director Gyorgy Palfi will take his film next . Where Hukkle 's circle-of-life surrealism had a certain twisted charm , this film 's sense of the grotesque is more glum than fun . On the tail of such a promising debut , it ca n't help feeling like a hiccup . Surreal , grotesque and bitterly funny Hungarian art horror film ... aspires not to cult status as a torture porn totem but to the highest cinematic art . ( It 's not that , but give it points for trying . ) Five-star direction , however , can only take you so far if your audience have followed their stomach contents out of the building . In the grotesque storybook satire Taxidermia , Palfi 's so-thought cynicism is merely observing plain ( if sickeningly hilarious ) truths about our excesses ... an intense , disgusting , and probably brilliant experience . Taxidermia is a brilliant , often grotesquely bizarre allegory on life in Hungary from World War II to the present , a surrealist fantasy exploring the limits of the body and its desires and altogether a darkly funny comedy . 	Surreal and visually striking , Taxidermia is , at times , graphic and difficult to watch , but creatively touches on disturbing subjects with imagination and wit .
waiting For what 's essentially a raucous , gross-out comedy , this is a surprisingly tame film . Some jokes hit their mark , but mostly in `` Waiting % u2026 , '' what you 're really waiting for is inspiration . Despite its flaws , it really is a funny , witty , and suprisingly charming slob comedy Rob McKittrick 's debut is most successful at its simplest - unflinching in the way a lot of 20somethings talk and act in the company of friends . The only things you 'll find on the menu are rancid leftovers . Luis Guzman is especially funny as a sex-crazed head cook obsessed with a staff game that becomes a centerpiece of the film 's humor . You can do gross-out stuff and be funny , but it has to have some decent dialogue and characters . You 'd have more fun actually working in a restaurant . Probably . McKittrick neglects to realize that his target audience ( males , ages 18-25 ) presumably are n't interested in seeing or hearing about the male genitalia at any time ... A silly , awkward , but sometimes very funny movie . 	Waiting ... is a gross-out comedy that is more gross than comic .
the way 2011 It 's a sweet and sincere family pilgrimage , even if a little too long and obvious . Audiences seeking uplift will find it here . The Way 's honey-toned landscapes and shots of alfresco meals shared by international pilgrims at rustic albergues are enough to make anyone ready a backpack and head off on walkabout . It 's not quite a road movie nor a real redemption story , nor a buddy movie ; it 's a diary where the journey is more important than the getting to the destination A sincere , well-intentioned story about grief and faith , it feels almost daringly old-fashioned . ... is uplifting without being maudlin , and has a heart on its sleeve sincerity that sidesteps sentimentality . It 's also a bit too long . But somehow , despite the simple and sometimes obtuse storytelling , there is something strangely intimate and mesmerising about this film . Mr. Estevez is both writer and director of this film , and also turns up in a small role , but he gives the spotlight to his father , who makes quite a lot out of a low-key story that could easily have degenerated into mush . Easygoing , touching , and a nice vehicle for Martin Sheen The dialogue in `` The Way '' is sincerely platitudinous , and Estevez has less of an idea about where to put the camera than when he started two decades ago . He is - how to put this ? - not a good director . The film becomes lovable , like a naif precocious son who expatiates about things he does n't understand but has picked up from O and A levels . 	It may be a little too deliberately paced for more impatient viewers , but The Way is a worthy effort from writer/director Emilio Estevez , balancing heartfelt emotion with clear-eyed drama that resists cheap sentiment .
fast runner The director has fixed this Arctic potboiler , passed down through the ages as part of a rich oral tradition , onto digital video with ... breathtaking punch and such a sweeping sense of immediacy . Compelling as it is exotic , Fast Runner has a plot that rivals Shakespeare for intrigue , treachery and murder . Murder , jealousy and infidelity are all part of this tale that proves the elements of a good yarn are the same no matter where you go . Shot in digital video , The Fast Runner is meant to be an epic but feels cramped by the limitations of an electronic medium . The Canadian Arctic , a story of love and revenge , and you do n't need the $ 5000 that Maupintour charges to visit . The Fast Runner , an epic story coming from northern Canada , provides the perfect antidote to this summer of blockbusters . ... squeezes in enough passion , jealousy , family feuding and murder to fuel a daytime drama for several weeks . The 167 minutes go by at reasonable speed after an irrelevant prelude . Not merely an interesting document from a far-off place ; it is a masterpiece . It takes us to a world we 've never seen , to tell us a story both entirely foreign and completely familiar . 	Compelling human drama and stunning cinematography make The Fast Runner an absorbing experience .
1012928-m The film grows more unsettling when it becomes apparent that the child killer Beckert is something of a child himself , forcing the audience into something beyond complicity , something dangerously close to identification . An extraordinary , good , impressive and strong talker . Again fine work by Fritz Lang , and his wife and helper , Thea von Harbou . Peter Lorre 's finest performance , and a truly significant socially-themed film . Extraordinary and shocking - still . M is one of director Lang 's many greats . It 's clear that Lang was ahead of most of his peers in grasping the promise of the motion picture form . The film does n't ask for sympathy for the killer Franz Becker , but it asks for understanding : As he says in his own defense , he can not escape or control the evil compulsions that overtake him . Images of Lorre 's oversized , fearful eyes and the yanking of children from the streets by protective parents set the mood of this picture more effectively than any dialogue could . Fritz Lang 's M is one of the great philosophical films , primarily because its anger and message are not bogged down in pretentious overtones with crush the story of the film , rendering it almost unwatchable a second time . It 's creepy and masterful with many indelible scenes and a knockout performance by Peter Lorre . 	A landmark psychological thriller with arresting images , deep thoughts on modern society , and Peter Lorre in his finest performance .
te doy mis ojos Domestic abuse has been portrayed on film before but never with this much complexity . For once , it makes sense that the battered wife always returns to the abusive spouse , even if we do n't believe his promises ( 'I 've changed ' ) any more than hers ( 'I 'm never going back ' ) . Though deceptively straightforward in its exploration of the causes and effects of domestic abuse , Take My Eyes benefits from the grubby verisimilitude Bollan brings to his material , which otherwise might have lapsed into movie-of-the-week superficiality The performances from Marull and Tosar ... are superbly nuanced , carefully tweaking your emotions until they ensure that Take My Eyes is one of the most moving films you 'll see this year . This small , somber drama says things to battered women they probably already know . What it says to their abusers -- of any country or culture -- they ca n't afford to ignore . Handles the subject of domestic violence with intelligence and compassion . An extraordinarily truthful and piercing drama about spousal abuse . Actors Laia Marull and Luis Tosar explore the intricate details of a relationship based on the laws of attraction and repulsion , in which the intellect is repeatedly devastated by primal passion . The film won a sack of Goya Awards in 2004 . These kinds of films are hard to keep out of your mind . 	Graced with effective performances , Take My Eyes compellingly explores the subject of domestic abuse while avoiding simplistic characterizations .
american-the-bill-hicks-story Hicks deserves a truly great documentary , but for now this one will do . Piecing together a remarkable story from first-hand accounts , still photos and grainy video footage , filmmakers Harlock and Thomas assemble a gripping narrative documentary about a modern-day prophet . Posthumous albums and now this film are securing his legacy and enduring influence . a well-produced , visually buoyant ode made by two fans and ready-made for Hicks ' pre-existing fan base Impressively directed and impeccably researched , this is an extremely entertaining documentary that 's a must-see for Hicks fans and a great introduction for the uninitiated , although there are a couple of frustrating omissions . The vitriolic comedian 's career gets a photo-animated documentary treatment which drowns out his voice with a chorus of friends and family . American : The Bill Hicks Story is not the last word on this enduring figure in comedy , but it 's certainly the most personal . Hicks had a great voice -- lucid , perceptive and outraged -- and it 's great to hear it again . A little too in love with its subject , but a treat for fans . While many biographical documentaries reduce their subjects to museum pieces , American presents the erstwhile Goat Boy as a force of nature , as vital and essential as he ever was . 	A treasure trove of archival material and interviews , American : The Bill Hicks Story is an exuberant celebration about a unique , sorely missed voice in comedy .
the-third-man Reed ends film with the one of the longest but most powerful shots in the history of cinema . The bombed buildings , piles of rubble and their evocative shadows form a haunting backdrop to the outdoor scenes , particularly at night . ... Greene 's talent for dialogue and suspense shine . [ It ] has more twists and turns than a rollercoaster . The Third Man is like the exhausted aftermath of Casablanca . ... in sparkling black and white ... a gorgeous example of the possibilities of cinematic chiaroscuro and among the most entertaining 'classic ' films of any genre . Greene 's story and screenplay , which he accurately described as `` a comic thriller , '' is a gift that keeps on giving , with patter that 's never less than brilliant . [ Criterion Blu-ray ] Seen today , The Third Man ... can be appreciated as a prophetic statement on the eventual moral bankruptcy of the one-world euphoria that clouded men 's minds immediately after the second 'war to end all wars . ' It is a bleak , hard-nosed crime story that encompasses a ruined continent , sick and cynical from war . The Third Man finally endures because it offers a simple thing that so many modern films neglect : the power of story . A true classic , wonderful selection for college film series audiences . Like many , I have loved this thriller of conscience and betrayal most of my moviegoing life . Essential Graham Greene , brilliant Orson Welles , and one of the best thrillers ever made . 	This atmospheric thriller is one of the undisputed masterpieces of cinema , and boasts iconic performances from Joseph Cotten and Orson Welles .
grudge The Grudge is n't nearly as scary as the upcoming election . A beautiful blend of tension , good performances , and a shocking ending . Most of my child-like fear can be traced to one scene where a serious scare happens in someone 's bed . full review in Greek Anyone who has ever seen a horror flick will know where this one 's going every inch of the way . I want to scream in terror ( like at a Jennifer Lopez movie , or when I stand naked in front of my mirror ) . Sadly , The Grudge 's scares are n't accompanied by much else . Japanese cult chiller remake is n't your usual Hollywood horror flick , but it also is n't very good . The Grudge is so amazing to look at that some might even be able to forgive the fact that the plot never kicks into gear . But I can not . We need to care about Karen . That we never quite do is n't scary . It 's merely disappointing . Despite a few effective scares , this new Grudge never really generates the right amount of tension . 	There 's some creepy imagery to be found , but not much in the way of logic or truly jarring scares .
grindhouse It makes going to the movies an event . Dense with allusive details and inside jokes , Grindhouse is a postmodern exercise in nostalgia undertaken by two smart filmmakers , with a lot of help from their friends . Grindhouse is more fun than an army of toxic zombies , or a shapely severed leg hitting the highway with a thump . Half smirk , half transcendence A fun exercise in nostalgia . If it stops feeling like entertainment , then it must be art . Grindhouse is a great experience , packed with fun , thrills , chills and gore galore . The trailers for grindhouse movies were always better than the films themselves . Sadly , the same is true of Grindhouse . If you 've got a taste for blood and three hours to kill , Grindhouse is for you . Packaging a three-hour-plus program may be daring , but pairing a long running time with junk-food cinema is enough to make you sick . 	Grindhouse delivers exhilarating exploitation fare with wit and panache , improving upon its source material with feral intelligence .
1171939-perfect stranger [ A ] cautionary tale about the dangers of Internet chat . You know , like everyone was worried about in 1996 . Coming for Summer 2008 : Do n't Go Near the Telegraph ! For those who are interested in Berry as both an actress and screen presence , this is one of the most satisfying films she has ever made . It capitalizes on her strengths and she owns the picture , from start to finish . Perfect Stranger , the new thriller starring Halle Berry and Bruce Willis , is far from perfect and , lame as it is , not quite lousy enough to pan with joy . This stupidly contrived thriller is all the more disappointing if you admire previous work by Berry and director James Foley . Straddles the line between intrigue and blandness until it decides it 's had enough and just sort of peters out . While it begins dully enough for an investigative thriller , Perfect Stranger quickly skids off into abject foolishness . There is entertainment to be had here , but it 's mostly at the expense of the film 's rambling , increasingly ridiculous plot . Halle Berry is off-the-scale bad ... [ but ] almost as bad as Berry 's acting is the capricious and ridiculous script . Everyone behaves like characters who are motivated not by emotion or logic , but the to and fro of a remote control or joystick . Much of the film takes place in computer chats , with an instant-message box taking up most of the screen , and Berry and Willis reading every line for those of us who are illiterate . 	Despite the presence of Halle Berry and Bruce Willis , Perfect Stranger is too convoluted to work , and features a twist ending that 's irritating and superfluous . It 's a techno-thriller without thrills .
1112954-rookie In one of his greatest performances , Dennis Quaid puts nasty velocity and wicked movement on his delivery . A patient , emotionally honest sports film about resurrecting a dream and investing all you never knew you had . An authentic family treat . Salutes the singular power of yearning in our lives while also paying tribute to the unique ways in which others can help us make our dreams come true . The strong and silent naturalistic performance of Dennis Quaid scores a strikeout . Hancock 's heartfelt movie scores a solid hit . Despite failed ambitions and occasional servings of corn , The Rookie manages to be both appealing and true to the game . What makes it worth watching is Quaid 's performance . Few films capture so perfectly the hopes and dreams of little boys on baseball fields as well as the grown men who sit in the stands . Hits one out of the park for the 'they do n't make 'em like that anymore ' department . Rachel Griffiths creates genuine tension , but true to the Disney spirit , Hancock bails the audience from contemplating the fate of the hero too long . 	A heart-warming sports flick , The Rookie greatly benefits from understated direction and the emotional honesty Dennis Quaid brings to the role of Jim Morris .
1139289-beauty shop Latifah is fun but the plot is a 'Barbershop ' retread . Takes the most outwardly memorable characteristics of Barbershop ... and replays them again , with less genuine verve . Barbershop has been given a cinematic sex-change operation . No matter how many jokes about big booties Beauty Shop tosses at us , it 's nothing more than Barber Shop Lite . Queen Latifah 's back on track . She has a long way to go to equal her role in `` Chicago , '' in which she both starred and sang . But `` Beauty Shop '' is a better-than-average outing . I may not be fully qualified to evaluate this movie 'cause I 'm a guy . I do n't know what women talk about when they 're alone . Maybe it 's what you get on screen . Maybe not . Everyone appears to have a good time but the script ... covers nothing new and is little more than a series of vignettes I thought this was too much like the pilot for a sitcom . Has the stink of a bad perm all over it . The film has a lot of good things around the edges , but its core lacks the spark that would make us want to return again and again to Gina 's salon . 	Despite a strong performance by Queen Latifah , Beauty Shop is in need of some style pointers .
wrong turn With Stan Winston 's disturbingly realistic effects and spine-chilling mountain men , Wrong Turn takes the concept of hillbillies to a whole new level . You seriously may never go into the woods again . It 's gruesome and nasty and a heck of a lot of fun for people who get a kick out of Fangoria . The sole saving grace of Wrong Turn is its honesty . You get exactly what you expect -- blood , guts and people being taken to the killing floor . But just because it 's honest does n't make it good . Schmidt makes us flinch the old-fashioned way -- by giving us a box seat to the unspeakable . ... talent does not matter much , just as long as the women ? who , of course , all look like supermodels ? wear skimpy , transparent outfits throughout the movie . Proof that an old genre can still have life as long as filmmakers are willing to fill it with energy , humor and respect for the genre . A stultifying blend of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre , boot camp , and maybe The Blair Witch Project , Wrong Turn is profoundly less than the sum of its influences . It was a mistake to have one of the characters refer to the film Deliverance in this low-rent horror flick , because all it does is remind us of much better cinematic efforts . We never actually see the cannibals eat anybody , which leaves me to wonder : Are they really cannibals , or just slightly carnivorous pack rats ? We may never know the answer and we will probably never care . Completely forgettable . Wrong Turn is basically a well-made waste of time . 	An unremarkable slasher flick that fails to distinguished itself from others of its ilk .
black mass 2015 Though its impressively sprawling cast feels largely untapped , Black Mass is a much-needed reminder of Depp 's capacity for subtlety . Johnny Depp turns in a terrific performance as a real-life cold-blooded killer . Johnny Depp is transfixing as Whitey Bulger in a film that makes good use of tone and tension to tell its violent story . Seedy , sadistic story of South Boston 's most notorious Irish mobster - with Johnny Depp as sociopathic James 'Whitey ' Bulger . Proof that even after all this time , audiences have n't even begun to see everything that Johnny Depp is capable of . Depp really is impressive . If only that were enough . `` Black Mass '' is a strong , assured film , and Depp 's turn as Bulger is one of the best pieces of work in his long , eccentric career . A mixed bag , full of diamonds in the rough and a few precious gems . This is Depp bringing his skills to the table as a man with a propensity for being both terrifying and charming , often switching between the two on a dime . ... frightening depiction of Bulger by JohnnyDepp as a cruel , coldblooded killer ... highlighted by a scene between Depp and Julianne Nicholson that 's as disturbing as any scene between Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins in 'Silence of the Lambs . ' 	Black Mass spins a gripping yarn out of its fact-based story -- and leaves audiences with one of Johnny Depp 's most compelling performances in years .
1093874-superstar Superstar may not be the most unnecessary movie of the year , but it 's got to rank right up there . Jeez , I was yearning to leave after less than five minutes watching the spectacularly annoying , thirty-something Molly Shannon flounce around as an adolescent social misfit . The secret of Mary Katherine 's success is that she is n't afraid to risk looking foolish by trying too hard . The secret of Shannon 's success is that she knows just how hard to try . A comedy with several good laughs but no convincing cohesion . A pleasant surprise . `` Saturday Night Live '' -sketch-turned-film is slight -- and surprisingly enjoyable . It 's the first film in a long while to give a woman the freedom to 'get jiggy ' with all-out Jim Carrey-esque full body humor . Bikini waxing and pulling chin hairs is much more enjoyable . While the plot is well-worn and somewhat clumsily put together , the fine performance of Shannon as the main character powers the movie along pretty well until the film stumbles to its predictable conclusion . The funniest SNL movie since Wayne 's World . 	Dumb script and flat jokes made this another SNL misfire .
about schmidt The movie is our story as much as it is Schmidt 's , no matter if it 's viewed as a self-reflection or cautionary tale . The movie is n't just about Schmidt as a personality , it 's a portrait of his world , and Payne and co-writer Taylor show a rare compassion for the superficially comfortable . [ W ] hen Nicholson decides to bring a character to life , he 's so captivating that you forget he 's a movie star . Such is the case with About Schmidt . It 's a brilliant , honest performance by Nicholson , but the film is an agonizing bore except when the fantastic Kathy Bates turns up . Bravado Kathy ! Heartfelt Nicholson , not for kids at all . About Schmidt is slice-of-life filmmaking at its sharpest and truest . About Schmidt is largely about Jack Nicholson , in a comic showcase his fans wo n't want to miss . By the end , the movie has become a reminder that average lives , lived by people who experience failures and learn from them , are extraordinary . A thought-provoking and often-funny drama about isolation . A road trip of self-discovery , by turns hilarious and poignant , for a man unexpectedly at odds with the tiny world he has so laboriously made . 	In this funny , touching character study , Nicholson gives one of the best performances of his career .
21 grams 21 Grams is powerfully provocative ! A confused , confusing and too often glib treatise on matters of life and death . This is a great film with superb performances that only helps elevate the material to that even mightier level . The title refers to the amount of weight a human body loses at the time of death , or , as some believe , the weight of the soul . If so , 21 Grams is about 20 grams light . Every year needs a challenging masterwork , a movie that defies filmmaking convention and leaves an indelible mark on the collective psyche . Is the strategy to make you work so hard to determine where you are in the timeline that you overlook what a dreary and conventional little soap opera this is ? `` 21 Grams '' forces the audience to participate , but you will be well rewarded if you do Totally haunting and certainly not the feel-good movie of the season . A capital-M movie , and the most flagrant kind : Heavy emotion , heavy style , and lite philosophy converge and choke us with meaning . [ Penn ] , Watts and Del Toro ... keep us distracted from the truth about 21 Grams : that it is permeated with melodrama and not nearly as deep as it would like to be . 	Alejandro Gonzlez Irritu deftly weaves an uncommonly structured narrative with panache in 21 Grams , a stylish , haunting drama full of fine performances .
american haunting it becomes haunted by the unwelcome presence of heavy-handedness , making it seem more like a busy domestic melodrama ( with a ghost ) than a truly unnerving chiller . This is the type of movie that you should be getting for free on television . A collection of cheap jump-scares and tacky clichd imagery that we 've seen a million times before . This allegedly true tale of demonic possession is weighed down by period detail and ponderous storytelling , which soon get the better of its Exorcist-inspired levitations , flying crucifixes and noisy poltergeist activity . A Post-Colonial Scooby-Doo , as respectable actors in perfectly pressed costumes run up and down stairs avoiding unseen spooks . The director stands in the corner yelling `` Boo ! '' Using alleged 'actual events ' as a template , writer-director Courtney Solomon fashions a crafty mystery with a lot of joy-buzzer jolts sliding through its somber mood . like spending an afternoon in the world 's lamest haunted house . Takes the most documented ghost story in history and does n't create one truly scary moment . Labeled by some as 'America 's Greatest Ghost Story , ' the legendary Bell Witch gets herself another movie and the result is far from America 's Greatest Ghost Movie . The impassioned performances make you care what happens to these people , even when the film 's noisy overindulgence makes you almost wish their home would collapse on itself like The Fall of the House of Usher . 	Well , it looks good . But was n't it supposed to be scary ?
night watch 2006 No hyper-designed ersatz futurism for Bekmambetov . Night Watch is knowingly frugal and proudly cruddy . Taps into its own cultural wellspring of downright weirdness . I 'm not sure what the hell I saw , but I would n't mind watching more of it . It 's a must-see for anyone who 's willing to risk logic and accept a mundane conclusion to enjoy the fruit of a creative mind . To learn the actual outcome of the epic battle , we 'll have to wait for Leg 2 , Day Watch , which has already been shot , and Leg 3 , Dusk Watch , which will be produced in English by Fox . Wake me when they 're here . Dare I even consider that perhaps this is all there is , and Bekmambetov does n't have a blueprint for his trilogy ? Night Watch certainly hints at this possibility . If the presentation of a movie 's subtitles is its strongest asset , then we 're in trouble . Easily recommended Russian fantasy/horror . . . The punchy , nonstop visual effects crowd out coherent storytelling . Bekmambetov is a confident , original director , whose visions reveal him as someone to watch -- beyond the next two installments of this trilogy . The filmmakers do n't seem to realize that if a movie with a mythology this groan-inducingly convoluted does n't have a sense of humor about itself , the laughs are going to come anyway . They just wo n't be of the intentional variety . 	This Russian horror/fantasy film pits darkness and light against each other using snazzy CGI visuals to create an extraordinary atmosphere of a dank , gloomy city wrestling with dread .
national lampoons christmas vacation John Hughes wrote the screenplay for this silly , warm little guilty pleasure that nails most of the trials and tribulations of spending the holidays with family . The new film does little more than reintroduce these familiar characters ( with new actors playing the children , who would otherwise be college age by now ) and let them get on one another 's nerves in earnest . Many of those episodic moments , particularly in the film 's first half , are hilarious . But as picture goes along there are far too many dry spells . Sequence after sequence seems to contain all the necessary material , to be well on the way toward a payoff , and then it somehow does n't work . In National Lampoon 's Christmas Vacation , Chevy Chase 's family Christmas tree is a little full with a lot of sap , much like this movie . But it 's a big-hearted fullness and it 's a smoothly stirred sap . The human frailty at the center of the story makes the jokes all the funnier . Holiday films are rarely as priceless . The best of the four `` Vacation '' movies . As always the visual gags are more prevalent then the verbal ones , and are lit up in neon so you ca n't miss them . With enough sight gags to please slapstick fans and enough good-natured Christmas cheer to qualify as a good holiday film , National Lampoon 's Christmas Vacation should keep most viewers occupied and provide 97 minutes of goofy entertainment . The ultimate family holiday film , playing on both the heart strings and the horror to capture a genuine Christmas spirit . 	While Christmas Vacation may not be the most disciplined comedy , it 's got enough laughs and good cheer to make for a solid seasonal treat .
existenz a genuinely jolting yarn ... Cronenberg eventually succeeds in making the audience feel as disoriented as Allegra ... In the hands of anyone else , the notion of computer game terrorists would be ludicrous , and even Cronenberg fails to explain their motives , using the film instead to indulge in surreal exercises of dream logic . eXistenZ is a good ride . But eat before you come . The meals on display here are for presentation only . The Matrix is mainstream sci-fi , but eXistenZ , written by Cronenberg , is much stranger ; it creates a world where organic and inorganic are not separate states , but kind of chummy . Cronenberg slides between reality and virtual reality with such seamless morphing that it is sometimes intentionally unclear what world the characters are in . It 's a pleasure to find the brooding Cronenberg turning out a trifle , even if it 's a dark trifle . This is Cronenberg country and cyberspace is not a spotless , computer-generated playing platform but a decayed , visceral fug For the right audience the film is a kick . The first North American release of 1999 that can make you tingle while you 're watching it , then think three days later while you replay it at home . This darkly sexual sci-fi horror variant by Cronenberg makes The Matrix look like child 's play . 	Gooey , slimy , grotesque fun .
last resort 2001 Obliquely affecting . A visceral , intimate drama . A humane and surprisingly comic feature . Pawlikowski deftly balances the bitter with the sweet here , which is graced by top-notch performances . Balances gritty naturalism and compelling drama . In addition to imbuing Last Resort with a convincingly gritty atmosphere , director Pawlikowski also loads the film with several fascinatingly seedy characters . Captures a small breath of life in a place where we might not otherwise look for it . Writer/director Pawel Pawlikowski strikes a wonderful balance between pathos and tenderness . Has a broodingly beautiful aesthetic sensibility . Pavlikovsky ... does a great job wielding his handheld camera to make this film feel like a documentary . 	Critics are raving about Last Resort , saying it 's a convincing , touching tale . Particularly impressive is the lack of script during the film 's shoot .
undercover brother Obvious , obnoxious and didactic burlesque . The enjoyable Undercover Brother , a zany mix of Saturday Night Live-style parody , '70s Blaxploitation films and goofball action comedy gone wild , dishes out a ton of laughs that everyone can enjoy . It 's far from perfect -- as many jokes fall flat as succeed -- but like Undercover Brother himself , it 's smarter than most , and twice as solid . It 's breezily entertaining and culturally specific without resorting to gross-out jokes or cruelty . UB equally spoofs and celebrates the more outre aspects of 'black culture ' and the dorkier aspects of 'white culture , ' even as it points out how inseparable the two are . The spirit of genre-busting , racial-stereotype deconstruction is so strong and heady in Undercover Brother that it 's hard not to completely fall for its comic charms . everyone in the theater ( half black-half white ) was laughing so hard at times that occasionally I could n't ever hear the dialogue - and it was turned up loud . If you like the Austin Powers franchise , chances are you 'll like this , regardless of your race . If you do n't , we 'll , I 'd have to say you 're just a jive turkey . A colorful , cool and completely hilarious ride that 'll have you rolling through the outtakes . A spy movie-blaxploitation picture spoof that repeats itself so often , and hits its targets so erratically , you 'd swear it was adapted from a Saturday Night Live skit . 	Fast-paced and filled with racial gags , Undercover Brother serves up plenty of laughs and sharp satire .
win win 2011 Trundles along for the most part in sitcom fashion , even down to the plinky-plonky background music . Wry , whimsical and compassionate , it 's worth a trip to the multiplex . A really well made dramedy that benefits from a funny and touching script by McCarthy and one of the best ensemble casts of the year . This beautifully realised independent film about winning and second chances is one of those gems that easily finds its mark It 's a true win , win . You know , there is truth in advertising . Or titles , I should say . W/D McCarthy addresses the everyday issues with such humanity and natural humor , intermingling the comedy and drama into a perfectly-hued shade of heightened reality ... that WIN WIN is about as good as it gets . McCarthy 's story and direction do n't demand that the audience take sides one way or the other with Mike . He and Giamatti trust us to come to our own conclusions . Writer/director Tom McCarthy 's skill comes from an ability to hook you and make you care about his characters as if they are family . Win Win is indie with the edges sanded down completely . 	Rich , wonderful characters and strong performances populate Win Win , with writer/director Thomas McCarthy continuing to emerge as a great American humanist .
1164582-trade Trade needed to be the United 93 of the human trafficking crisis . It 's closer to being the World Trade Center . If only the whole matched the power and potency of the details . Masquerades as a searing expos , but turns out to be a lurid and overwrought account . This involving film is weakened by a script that tries to create a formulaic thriller out of an important subject matter . I was moved . Equally involving yet hard to take . However lofty the film 's intent , it 's hard to ignore the flaws in its making nor the protagonist 's own criminality relative to a captor 's religious hypocrisy . Overly symbolic shots of a lone bike in the street and a doll with its head torn off do n't do an already garbled cautionary tale any favors . Yes , a conventional documentary about sex slavery would probably be more illuminating . It would also be more unbearable . Such difficult subject matter requires a harder-edged delivery , but hopefully this accessible drama will therefore get its message across to a wider audience . A documentary about sex trafficking might have been more powerful . Dramatizing the subject in this fashion , with a race-against-time road trip , breathless online bidding and a couple of different happy endings , simply cheapens it . 	With an exploitative style that seems more suited for TV shows like CSI , Trade 's message about the reality of child exploitation is easily lost .
101 reykjavik ... there is more intelligence and humor in this 93-minute diamond-in-the-rough than in 10 American coming-of-age flicks . A film that 's as outlandish as it is entertaining . But life , unlike MTV programming , does change now and then . Fulfills the basic requirements of good slacker comedy . A fascinating and sexy performance from Spanish actress Victoria Abril as Lola . In spirit , 101 Reykjavk is so Almodvar that it could melt the polar icecap . Fails because it 's nearly impossible to care about the main character . Imagine , if you dare , Ingmar Bergman as a consummate slacker with a wicked sense of pop humour . There 's something juicily amusing about the nonjudgmental way Kormakur views his characters . Uses a combination of humor , pathos , and general weirdness to good effect . 	A funny , offbeat romantic comedy about an unlikely tryst with the beautiful Icelandic landscape as a backdrop .
1208128-tyson Toback excises any counterbalancing voices from the project and leaves the final word in every case with Tyson , even as the boxer exhibits a marked tendency toward self-contradiction . Toback 's rare close-up view of some of the inherent contradictions in American hero worship makes Tyson a worthwhile coda to the mirage of athletic greatness Tyson 's career represents . Something of a clich . Though not probing enough , Toback 's sympathetic docu captures vividly Tyson the man , the celeb and the animal , but a more detached approach is required to make the film truly revelatory . Documentary as ghost-written autobiography . The result is fascinating yet troubling . Tyson offers no point of view other that that of Mike Tyson himself . He 's impossible not to like and the gentle quality of his voice is entirely disarming . Who is Mike Tyson ? Soft-spoken lost soul ? Vicious animal ? Not even he knows . But it 's eerily fascinating to watch him try to figure it out . Like Raging Bull , like On the Waterfront , even like Woyzeck ( the granddaddy of lumpenprole tragic drama ) , Toback 's portrait asks us to ransack the human animal to see if there is a soul inside - and if so , of precisely what kind ? Toback fashions a sharp doc out of a blunt object . 	A fascinating , emotional , and frank confessional from Iron Mike that sheds a sympathetic light on one of boxing 's most controversial icons .
youve got mail The movie grows on you until you do n't want to leave it . A love story destined to be remembered as one of the best of the decade . It 's a good date movie , and I recommend it . But do n't forget to rent The Shop Around the Corner . It 's handsome , professional moviemaking all around , just a little flat when it ought to soar . Insufferably cutesy-poo ! A great big hug of a film . Um filme carente de atrativos como os que fizeram de 'Sintonia de Amor ' uma pequena obra-prima entre as comdias romnticas . Boring , unoriginal , long-winded rehash of two of this writer 's earlier scripts , based on the 1940 film entitled The Shop Around the Corner ... You 've Got Mail is a light and tasty little romantic recipe for the holidays . You 've Got Mail is a valentine to New York 's Upper West Side neighborhood , a center of liberal , well-educated individuals who patronize a plethora of megastores and independents as well . 	Great chemistry between the leads made this a warm and charming delight .
gospel While The Gospel 's faith-laced dialogue might annoy non-Christians , the plot mostly explores themes of a universal nature . Recommended to members of any faith for the stirring , onscreen performance of Grammy-winner Yolanda Adams . It 's no triumph , but at least the makers and musicians want to touch your soul . For some , that may be enough . A sermon writ as large as a multiplex movie screen . This is a soap opera through and through , with church politics in place of sexual dalliances . The Gospel loses focus , getting every bit as lost as its characters . `` The Gospel '' is a clich-filled movie with low production values that says nothing significant about gospel music or its core values . The Gospel is rousing , affirmative entertainment . I loved the music and I admired its good intentions . But there are just too many sub-professional touches for me to recommend the film . So doggedly positive that it amounts to a glossy version of a Sunday-school instructional film . The Gospel already has a built-in audience , and I imagine that they 'll be pretty satisfied with this musical/drama . 	While it features outstanding musical numbers , The Gospel reduces a series of worthy themes -- faith , family , forgiveness -- to soapy , banal clichs .
doomsday One 's enjoyment of Doomsday might stem from how much one admires a blatant homage to the 1980s . Writer/Director Neil Marshall 's entertaining , sorta-cheesy , if at times derivative homage to post-apocalyptic cinema delivers exactly what action fans of the genre crave . A bit like a medley of greatest hits performed by a hot , young talent who brings a new vocal inflection to the tired , old standards . About twenty minutes into it I decided to pretend it was a long-lost mid-'80s film Marshall had dusted off and put his name on . The survivors have made it a priority -- as they have in so many post-apocalyptic action flicks -- to store up provisions of mascara and hair dye . Delivers the exploitation goods and then some , but it 's so utterly derivative it represents a depressing step backward for Marshall ... Likely to be the year 's most entertaining film withheld from critics , Neil Marshall 's latest finds him pigging out at a B-movie buffet of bangers and mash . His alchemy of anarchy in the U.K. is exhilarating and playfully perverse . Much as one might admire the British health care system as presented in the documentary Sicko , even Michael Moore would have to admit they have a hard time over there coping with apocalyptic viruses . I somehow ended up admiring `` Doomsday '' for being the most unapologetically ridiculously , preposterous action movie I 've ever seen . When people complain that Doomsday moves from one 'what the hell ? ' moment to another , they 're overlooking the fact that that 's pretty much the idea . 	Doomsday is a pale imitation of previous futuristic thrillers , minus the cohesive narrative and charismatic leads .
last days in vietnam That Henry Kissinger is there , uncontested as he pawns off the same dodgy claims he has for four decades , is a problem . This is both a gripping suspense story and a profound moral drama . `` Last Days of Vietnam '' comes along to remind us that it 's never simple , and that pointing the finger becomes a futile exercise that can only accomplish paralysis . It 's not a documentary that reinvents the form or will alter anyone 's perception of the war , but sometimes a rich , exhaustive chronicle is more than enough . Nonfiction filmmaking at its finest , using incredible archival footage and fresh interviews to bring new light on an important , overlooked part of recent history . As a portrait of America in a moment both of idealism and betrayal , the movie is heartbreaking as well as inspiring . Deja vu , all over again , and riveting . Authoritative and exhaustive . A must-watch . Anyone who thinks history is dry stuff should see `` Last Days in Vietnam '' - and heed its lessons . Paints a true-life picture of ordinary people with human consciences defying their orders and the law to do the right thing when bureaucracy fails them . 	As gripping as it is inspiring , Last Days in Vietnam offers a surprisingly fresh -- and heart-wrenching -- perspective on the end of the Vietnam War .
cure 1997 With its gift for infusing uneasiness into every frame , Kurosawa 's moody , unnerving film continues to spook us even after the lights have gone on . Too shallow to enthrall , and it lacks the visceral energy to sustain itself as a genre piece . Do n't expect the meticulously honed story of Seven or an evening of pretzel-raveling a la Memento . But if you 've had a particularly stressful workweek , it 'll make you question whether the stress was worth it . An effective piece of shock cinema . Cure sticks with you -- it 's a movie about the power of suggestion that casts a troubling spell on the viewer as well . Another strong vehicle for Japan 's top male star , Koji Yakusho . A creepy , enigmatic bit of psychological terror that by its final ambiguous scene leaves you truly chilled . A grave , magnificently creepy thriller . Once again [ Kurosawa ] takes on a familiar genre , the murder mystery , but he imbues it with so much angst and psychological juice that it takes on a life of its own . The approach is not an especially deep one , and in Cure it 's given more deliberation than it can bear . 	Mesmerizing and psychologically intriguing .
willow Nice fantasy adventure , looking pretty dated now , but ably helmed by Ron Howard . Willow is medieval mishmash from George Lucas , a sort of 10th-century Star Wars tossed together with a plethora of elements taken from numerous classic fables . The big budget ca n't conceal the fact that this fiction is fallow , more rootbound than spellbound . It works better as a portfolio for ILM techies than an example of such hoary entertainment standards as acting , screenwriting , plotting , and direction . As a movie , it 's a hell of a video game Though children will mostly be enthralled by the spectacles , even they might notice the weak story protruding through the industrial magic . a forgotten classic that holds a lot of nostalgia Grand escapism Although the dragon is a fantastic early computer generated creation and must have cost a bundle to design , the film itself is too long , too slowly paced , and not very intelligent . Gad . 	Good production value and decent special effects , but the story is too insipid and slowly paced .
1221547-alice in wonderland Johnny Depp , basicamente dependendo apenas da maquiagem e de prteses , investe numa composio caricata como o personagem exige ao mesmo tempo em que se apresenta em cena como uma espcie de filhote assustado de Madonna , Gene Wilder e Elijah Wood . `` Curiouser and curiouser , '' says Alice in Tim Burton 's latest , and for the first time I do n't believe her . Impressive eye-candy , elaborate and gorgeously detailed in wall-to-wall CGI ( the 3-D seems rather half-hearted though ; this is one that wo n't suffer much in regular old 2-D ) . Is Alice In Wonderland worth seeing ? Yes , because it 's a feast for the eyes . But the story needed to be more imaginative and involving for this to become a massive hit , and it 's far from obvious whether it 's aimed at children or adults . Alice in Wonderland reminds me most of Sleepy Hollow : empty , faux-atmospheric , and without soul . In many respects , this is the most crowd-pleasing Burton film in many years . Alice in Wonderland is something of a mixed bag -- it 's worth seeing for the effects and performances but it 's badly let down by a very disappointing script . A , my name is Alice , and my movie is amazing . It 's a shame Burton gets his Lewis Carroll mixed up with his Tolkien and CS Lewis . Still , the film 's 3D visuals are fun to look at . It jumbles together a half-dozen or so other overproduced fantasies and wraps them up with typical , tiresome Disney bromides and just enough snippets from the originals to remind you of what you 're missing . 	Tim Burton 's Alice sacrifices the book 's minimal narrative coherence -- and much of its heart -- but it 's an undeniable visual treat .
berberian sound studio 2012 Manages to evoke the crimson-splashed shockers of the 1970s without so much as a single frame of actual carnage . Peter Strickland 's crafted the perfect metaphor for film spectatorship : essentially , how sound functions to augment the moving image , induce psychological effects and suture you into its immaterial world . A delicately detailed immersion into the world of Z-grade Italian horror cinema that ultimately may or may not be a horror film itself ... a tense , teasing triumph . Much like this film 's main character , you ca n't quite explain what 's got you so afraid -- you just know that you are . Director Peter Strickland reaches for something more significant that he never quite finds , but by then you may be too entertained to care . In this era of cookie-cutter cinema , Strickland 's deeply personal moral and stylistic vision deserves the highest praise . Both times I have seen it , its vision , ingenuity and sheer gobsmacking audacity have blown me ten feet out of my seat . `` Berberian Sound Studio '' is spooky right up to the minute it turns stupid . A twisted tribute to analog moviemaking and 1970s Italian Giallo horror flicks . Some are hailing it as a masterpiece . I 'd say it 's a missed opportunity . 	Its reach may exceed its grasp , but with Berberian Sound Studio , director Peter Strickland assembles a suitably twisted , creepy tribute to the Italian Giallo horror movies of the '70s that benefits from a strong central performance by Toby Jones .
disaster movie If Judd Apatow is the Jesus of modern comedy , Seltzer and Friedberg are the Anti-Christ - and sadly just as prolific Come on , pedophilia is funny and a Michael Jackson joke is never not timely , right ? Wrong . It 's not timely or funny . It 's juvenile and crude , and it ranks right up there as one of the worst films of the year . Cobbled together with plotlines , characters , catchphrases and other assorted gimmicks still lodged in the short-term memory cavities of our pop cultural consciousness . The `` jokes '' are limp and pathetic or stillborn , timing is ignored , performances are a not-so-giddy mug-fest . Audiences are left wondering when the freshman cast is going to learn the rudiments of performing . Disaster Movie , the latest disposable parody of disposable Hollywood movies , has a shelf life of about five minutes , tops . [ A ] budget-less pastiche of sub-Mad-magazine parodies culled from the trailers of almost every summer movie . It 's quite frankly stultifying that Friedberg are Seltzer are ever let anywhere near a studio boardroom after having defecated out their previous movies , much less this one . No one spoofed in the film -- yes , including Jessica Simpson -- is more worthy of derision than the people responsible for making it . I wish to God they would find something else to do . 	Returning to their seemingly bottomless well of flatulence humor , racial stereotypes , and stale pop culture gags , Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer have produced what is arguably their worst Movie yet .
down and out in beverly hills Paul Mazursky has n't only remade Jean Renoir 's sublime 1931 Boudu Saved From Drowning : he 's yuppified it , inverting virtually every meaning until the film becomes a celebration of the crassest kind of materialism . An uneven satire with some wit , but sometimes too strident . A sparkling social commentary that does n't skimp on the laughs . A funny and poignant if also broad reworking of Renoir 's classic , Boudu Saved from Drowning , Paul Mazursky 's satire also works as a critique of L.A. nouveau riche and their crass lifestyle , reflected , among other things , in the garrish color palette . The cast is entirely up to the comic hysteria Mazursky requires of them , though Mike the dog steals whatever scene he is in . Although it is more of a comedy of manners than a well-developed story , there are enough yocks and bright moments to make it a thoroughly enjoyable outing . Richard Dreyfuss in top form . Filled with hilarious incidents and clever one-liners . One of Mazursky 's few completely successful films . Silly but fun , and a big box-office earner . 	An enjoyable farce that relocates Jean Renoir 's Boudu Saved From Drowning to '80s California , offering fine comedic performances from Nick Nolte , Richard Dreyfuss and Bette Midler .
pulse It 's intended as an indictment of our overdependence on communications devices , but the premise is out-of-this-world unbelievable . Hollywood 's slick-looking but dumbed-down remake , directed by first-time feature filmmaker and commercial veteran Jim Sonzero , hits a new low . Like Naomi Watts and Sarah Michelle Gellar before her , Bell spends this Hollywood remake of a Japanese cult hit at an emotional dead end . Aparentemente , no h aparelho moderno que seja imune invaso de fantasmas dispostos a utiliz-lo a fim de se espalharem pelo mundo . Pulse is n't awful . It 's just an uninspired fright-fest with ghouls we 've seen before and not enough creative style to make us forget that fact . The subtle mystery of the original is lost through over-the-top scenes . The technophobic horror flick Pulse is a cautionary tale that could have been dreamed up by a frustrated parent : If you do n't get off of that computer , kids , you 'll turn into a zombie . What really separates it from the pack is its thematically rich exploration of how communications technology can unwittingly bring about a sort of cultural death . Decent horror remake with a strong cast , atmospheric direction and some genuinely scary scenes - you 'll never log on to your computer again . Probably . Fails to find the relevancy it desires and the momentum it needs , all the while unleashing a series of hoary teen thriller clichs and cheap throwaway jump scares . 	Another stale American remake of a successful Japanese horror film , Pulse bypasses the emotional substance of the original and overcompensates with pumped-up visuals and every known horror cliche .
perfect storm The poignant knowledge that this tragic tale really happened is enough to elevate the movie beyond just another summer special-effects showcase . This entire second half -- with catastrophe upon catastrophe hurled at us -- redeems the movie 's messy human- interest opening . Una Tormenta Perfecta es , con mucho , la experiencia flmica ms intensa del ao The Perfect Storm is as detached and mechanical as a production of Moby Dick staged by the Weather Channel . It provided me with just the right amount of mindless entertainment that I needed over this hot , sticky , summer holiday weekend . The perfect example , of how the newest visual effects movies have the capacity to overwhelm everything -- from actors to plotlines -- except in the end , maybe , their audiences . Opens with a squall of anticipatory clichs . As for the storm , I found Wolfgang Petersen 's direction so engrossing that I failed to evaluate the quality of the special effects . A sense of reality is essential , and it 's sorely lacking . A perfectly told tale of humans courageously facing nature 's fury . 	While the special effects are well done and quite impressive , this film suffers from any actual drama or characterization . The end result is a film that offers nifty eye-candy and nothing else .
darkness falls Inventive fiction masquerading as age-old , local legend deteriorates into a wholly generic creature flick . A joyless amalgam of horror movie cliches . It 's a downer to see so much effort expended on such junk . A conventional , mildly frightening , low-grade horror flick with some humor ( often unintentional ) and as many gaps as a seven-year-old 's mouth . Exactly what a horror movie should be ; fun , scary , fast paced , and with 'jump ' moments galore . ... so unoriginal in its execution that it serves to prove two things : 1 ) this genre is played out , and 2 ) as long as crap makes money , studios will continue to make crap . This is a self-consciously silly , completely disposable multiplex movie that does its best to deliver its fair share of chills while struggling to keep a straight face . Darkness Falls breaks even , at least for horror fans , if not for horror snobs The 'story ' has editing in place of atmosphere , noise in place of subtlety . Depending exclusively on countless endeavors of the past to emit its energy , the picture would serve as a worthwhile experience only to those who have never seen a horror movie in their life . 	A derivative movie where the scares are few and things do n't make much sense .
syndromes and a century The film functions not only as a loving tribute to the past , but as Weerasethakul 's attempt at experiential preservation . If you allow the film to wash over you , it can be appreciated as an essay on the power of memory . While Syndromes and a Century may not be going anywhere fast , or even slowly , it certainly looks -- and more importantly , feels -- beautiful getting there . This portrait of life is all about the yin and the yang , so it follows that for everyone who finds it dull there are those who will be captivated . A delightfully relaxed and entertaining Thai movie about a country hospital and two doctors who work there . Knowingly enigmatic , but more accessible than the director 's previous works . No psychological or sociological interpretation is offered , but the lovely whole that slowly emerges has profundity precisely because of its inclusive reticence . Do n't think of it as film . Think of it as a series of paintings that talk to each other , raptly and quietly . Syndromes and a Century is beguiling and confounding , and I hope to see it again soon : When I do , I suspect I 'll understand it even less and yet love it more . Sporadically mesmerizing imagery and a miasma-like atmosphere but only fits and starts in the way of plot . 	Despite having little in the way of narrative , Apichatpong Weerasethakul 's Syndromes is a poignant and mesmerizing memoir .
greatest game ever played I 'm going to bet that Bill Paxton loves golf . Because , despite his deftly directed `` Frailty , '' `` The Greatest Game Ever Played '' rolls all over the place . The Greatest Game never thrills on an emotional level the way the best of sports films -- a Hoosiers , say -- can , but it 's a satisfying entertainment nonetheless . Actor-director Bill Paxton covers a golf tournament in ways ESPN never imagined . This film is better than it has any right to be . Good acting , lush locales and snazzy special effects ca n't disguise the fact that it 's a profoundly uncinematic sport , not even in a movie about the first American to shatter the sport 's long-standing class barrier . There 's a par for every hole , and Paxton pretty much hits exactly that -- sometimes over and sometimes under , but always close , with no surprises . The psychological game of golf has probably never been presented better on screen . Everything else about the movie is a straight shot down the fairway , predictably pleasing by not veering off into anything too interesting . Though hardly terrible , The Greatest Game mostly sits there limply -- it lacks the charming swagger Paxton dependably brings to his own acting roles . The warm and unabashedly sentimental tone overcomes the audience 's defenses , mostly because LaBeouf is so down-to-earth and appealing . ... this is a fable meant to rouse , complete with swelling strings . It is n't a movie about real people at all , despite its insistence on using real names . 	Despite all the underdog sports movie conventions , the likable cast and lush production values make The Greatest Game Ever Played a solid and uplifting tale .
double indemnity Small gestures , inflections and body language all accumulate to deliver a fascinating scenario that we ca n't help but watch as it winds relentlessly towards its majestically shadowy conclusion and terrific ending . Even though you already know it is n't going to end well , it 's suffused with a clammy-handed anxiety that belies its age . The dialogue , too , is classic Wilder -- almost poetic in its snappy , purple lyricism . Right up there with Billy Wilder 's very best work . Writer/director Billy Wilder cements all the hallmarks of a style that comes into its own with this wicked and suspenseful portrait of capitalist greed and post-war anxiety . Few other directors have made so many films that were so taut , savvy , cynical and , in many different ways and tones , funny . Sizzling and sassy , this thriller still cuts it amongst today 's effects-laden offerings . The quintessential film noir -- acid and snappy , and shockingly cold-blooded . If you like your dialogue hardboiled , your lighting shadowy , and your femmes fatales preposterously evil , then look no further : Billy Wilder 's 1944 adaptation of James M Cain 's insurance-scam novella . The very best noir there is ? Quite possibly . This classic thriller from director Billy Wilder is one of the best-loved examples of film noir ever made . 	A dark , tautly constructed adaptation of James M. Cain 's novel -- penned by Billy Wilder and Raymond Chandler -- Double Indemnity continues to set the standard for the best in Hollywood film noir .
1197016-mirrors An unexpected twist elevates this well constructed supernatural thriller whose chilling concepts and vivid imagery make it a scary experience . As Joe Bob Briggs used to say : `` too much plot gets in the way of the story . '' Mirrors is n't going to do Aja 's burgeoning stateside career any favors . Te story is efficient but strangely uninvolving and not nearly as scary as the Korean version . One of the better films of the infamous J-horror remake onslaught . Relatively speaking . [ Aja 's ] pedal-to-the-metal intensity only serves to heighten the film 's fundamental ridiculousness . Kiefer Sutherland 's bad days in 24 are frolics in the park next to the nonsense he endures in this scandalously poor supernatural horror . Supernatural troublemakers and psychos under glass in an endlessly dreary , disappointing remake having less to do with keeping you awake at night than struggling to stay awake during viewing . When we should be feeling fascinated by the unfolding mystery and creeped out by things acting up nastily , we instead find ourselves thinking too much and asking questions . The main problem with Mirrors is its truly clunky screenplay , which fails to support the often stylish visuals . 	Inconsistency and listless plot make this K-horror remake a less-than-frightening time at the movies .
doom After something goes horribly wrong at a science lab , Martian monsters get to smell what The Rock is cookin ' I 'm sitting here shakey of hand and bulgey of eye , trying to convey just how pitiful this film is . Yet no words I can think of do justice to this dross . It is just awful . If he 's not careful , the fact that The Rock 's characters - except for his comedic turn in Be Cool - are dreadfully similar is going to take its toll on his popularity . Charmless and brainless . Hollywood has rarely produced a series of films as consistent as those based on video games : A dozen of them now , and not one has been any good . Doom borrows gimmicks from other sci-fi/horror movies -- and not very well -- without creating enough of its own to do the trick . When a movie is based on a video game , we expect it to kick butt and take names , and Doom does . It does n't feel like you 're in outer space , nor even cyberspace . It feels like Ohio . What might have made for exciting action scenes tend to become mechanical exercises in first-person-shooter monster-blasting . for a movie based on a video game , it brings what it promises 	Sure to please fans of the video game , but lacking in plot and originality to please other moviegoers .
edge of darkness What 's really disturbing is the manner in which the violence is presented . It 's not campy fun and it 's not realistic for a reason ... It wants you to cheer along : Enjoy the bloodlust ! Gibson still knows what he does best , as a star should , and creates tension just from never letting the tears poised in his eyes fall . Edge Of Darkness quickly devolves into another showcase for Gibson 's snorting-bull act , a routine he could happily have shelved during his time off . Edge of Darkness fails as a comeback vehicle , as a remake and , to a lesser degree , as a popcorn thriller . Slow and silly plot notwithstanding , if you like your Mel Gibson out of control and a little bit crazy , this movie is for you . Perhaps the intrigue could have been boosted a little , but the formidable performances , biting script and Campbell 's flair for visual storytelling make this a riveting , smart and unexpectedly moving thriller . Campbell 's topnotch production team yields predictably polished results , but the director 's decision to revisit the late Troy Kennedy Martin 's teleplay , finally , feels lacking . Mesmo no sendo um grande filme , ao menos prova que Gibson ainda pode carregar um projeto com facilidade . The weightiness and the catastrophic implications of the conspiracy do n't sit well with what is essentially a Death Wish-inspired revenge fantasy . Edge of Darkness is offered as a political thriller , but with real-world politics removed . What we 're left with is a familiar mechanism for delivering a vicarious , violent , wish-fulfilment fantasy . 	For better and for worse , Edge of Darkness offers vintage Mel Gibson , working within the familiar framework of a bloody revenge thriller .
rumble in the bronx The story is nothing more than a thin veneer and a poor one at that over a movie to show off the martial arts talents of Jackie Chan . All of Chan 's movies are dumb fun , and this was no exception . If you are an action fan , and have n't seen Chan before , definitely see this film . If you do n't have the taste for the genre , however , there is absolutely nothing here to draw you in . It 's Jackie Chan delivering tasty kung fu smackdown . As long as that 's what you go in looking for , you wo n't be disappointed . Chan is his usual amazing self onscreen . Yes , the production values for support acting , dubbing , and photography are marginal , at best . But , the stunts and action sequences are a breath of fresh air when compared to the bloated , hi-tech Hollywood actioners we 're seeing . It 's not often you find a movie as exciting and awful as Rumble in the Bronx . A true original at work , a man who can take a ski , a pinball machine or a football helmet and make them part of his own graceful brand of art . Rumble is nonstop action . More than a martial arts whiz , the 41-year-old Chan possesses the comic timing of a born clown , the grace of a Broadway hoofer and the daredevil bravado of an Evel Knievel . 	An entertaining Jackie Chan stunt-fest in which the impressive action sequences overcome the low production value and by-the-numbers plot .
The-Rum-Diary Hilarious , sexy and intoxicatingly entertaining Hunter S. Thompson romp . The conflicts are undercooked , Johnny Depp 's performance rote and the film mired in a sort of existential haze . Boozy and incoherent , appealing primarily to cultish devotees of Hunter S. Thompson - of whom there are obviously far fewer than anticipated . A fitting tribute to Hunter and the demise of the American Dream , but first and foremost a thrilling and funny snapshot of a country on its knees and a writer finding his feet . Those of us who appreciate and celebrate oddness , and Johnny Depp , will be pleasantly rewarded . [ VIDEO ] As with Bruce Robinson 's enormously popular cult film `` Withnail and I , '' `` The Rum Diary '' is an alcohol-soaked story of a search for self that comes from crawling through the belly of the beast . The Rum Diary has no mighty gonzo wind . Even with a push from its Thompson-worshipping star , Johnny Depp , it leaves our freak flag limp . Despite some scattered moments of bad craziness involving the hero and his drinking buddies , the spine of the story is no strange and terrible saga but a conventional morality tale . A mirthless , sparkless `` comedy '' of galley journalism and tyro Bohemianism in 1960s Puerto Rico . Fans of Hunter S. Thompson may appreciate the way his words are realized , but the story is fairly flat and there 's a lot of dry exposition . 	It 's colorful and amiable enough , and Depp 's heart is clearly in the right place , but The Rum Diary fails to add sufficient focus to its rambling source material .
1052692-1052692-speed A really entertaining film , full of breathtaking stunts , explosions , chases and other spectacular actions . Unfortunately , those qualities seem to wear off on the second viewing ... An exhilarating thrill machine that goes from 0 to 50 in the opening minutes and never lets up . Pure adrenaline-pumping entertainment of the highest order . Hopper and Reeves make for a great match-up and the tension never stops . A very exciting two hours . The plot becomes so overextended , as Reeves and Hopper wage their endless public transportation battle , even the hardest Die-Harders will consider leaping off way before the final stop . 'Speed ' may not make much sense , but it moves so fast you wo n't have time to think about it . Not only is this flick a taut and wonderfully-crafted thriller , but Speed has some of the highest 'rewatchability factor ' I 've ever witnessed in an action flick . Good suspense movie , third act is weak Talk about simple . But the film 's sheer cut-to-the-chase straightfowardness is part of its appeal . 	A terrific popcorn thriller , Speed is taut , tense , and energetic , with outstanding performances from Keanu Reeves , Dennis Hopper , and Sandra Bullock .
man of the year Warning ! Do n't pay any attention to the dismal promotion for this film . Despite what you see , it 's an entertaining comedy-thriller . Even though it 's only two-thirds of a solid comedy , it does n't take a high-priced pollster to figure out that this is a far better ratio than a lot of other recent yukfests . A failure as satire -- a failure as a political thriller and a failure as an ill-conceived romance . That 's three failures in the space of one movie . Man of the Year is a moderately funny little movie that is n't pointed enough to successfully skewer its political targets . Man of the Year sets its audience up to ponder the unthinkable , loses its resolve and congeals into reassuring kitsch . There 's nothing about Man of the Year that 's quite as fantastic as its depiction of moribund Saturday Night Live as culturally and politically relevant . The new Robin Williams comedy Man of the Year is the sort of thing you almost feel sorry for . It 's all right when it 's trying to be a comedy or a savvy electoral satire . But it takes a disastrous wrong turn into paranoid political thriller territory and never recovers . Man of the Year is merely a Robin Williams stand-up routine wrapped in a limp script . A genre-less , imaginative riff by an intelligent filmmaker on the state of the country . 	Weakened by second-half attempts at thriller and romance , this presidential comedy also fails to hit any sharp political notes , resulting in a confused and unsatisfying mess .
bamako 2007 Awkward , dull film . while the film may be impaired as an oral treatise , Sissako 's use of the trial is still vindicated . It provides rich symbolism in what is , on the whole , a stimulating work . Sissako 's bolt of lightning is how he once again merges spaces : he sets the trial out-of-doors ... editing the village 's daily events as if they are all a part of the trial 's fabric . Heated speeches about the International Monetary Fund , debt relief and global responsibility may not sound like your idea of Friday-night entertainment , but [ director ] Sissako makes a strong case . Unlike other recent films about the plight of Africa , Bamako channels its outrage more directly , yet with greater subtlety , by recruiting real-life witnesses to Africa 's economic crises . While worthy , Bamako suffers somewhat fromits structure . Some of the testimony becomes so complicated that unless you are an expert or really truly versed on the subject , you just might tune out ( as I found myself doing on occasion ) . A passionate , challenging drama from the fine Mauritian writer-director Abderrahmane Sissako . Ironically , in an attempt to give Africans a voice , Sissako drowns them out . Bamako is challenging without a doubt , but Sissako 's righteous anger never loses its ability to connect to the heart , even in the film 's densest thickets of symbolism . Bamako is an amazing polemical political film like no other . 	A courtroom drama and a portrait of everyday Mali life , Bamako approaches both subjects with equal skill and success .
red No amount of jazzy cool can hide very large problems in the plot department . This action-comedy has a wacky tone that 's entertaining but never involving . A playful action blockbuster with a top-shelf cast and a refreshingly unconventional concept . Though the actors are all , in theory , welcome company , this ensemble never really gels . What it lacks in originality , it makes up for in Helen Mirren with a gun , which should be a requirement of all movies from now on . When people this talented get together there 's an expectation of entertainment that this inert comic book adaptation just does n't deliver . Director Robert Schwentke does as much as he can with the cartoonish story and stunts but after a while can no longer maintain the illusion that RED is actually about anything . Instead of remaining true to the much darker graphic novel , `` Red '' goes for the funny bone , using what amounts to wink-and-a-nudge stunt casting that never gets past its own cleverness . What really works for Red is our shared history with the actors involved . Old people who kill people are so much cuter than young people who kill people , right ? In a movie like RED , that 's all we need to know . 	It may not be the killer thrill ride you 'd expect from an action movie with a cast of this caliber , but Red still thoroughly outshines most of its big-budget counterparts with its wit and style .
big mommas house Big Momma 's House is as uneven as the readout on a binge dieter 's bathroom scale . Lawrence 's exuberant lead performance and occasional contributions from a game supporting cast do make for some hearty howls here and there . Farcical adroitness and Martin 's ablity to turn on the charm keep Big Momma 's House perking along . This movie is rotten . Lawrence is n't doing anything that has n't been done before , and he 's certainly not doing it any better . Everything about Big Momma 's House looks like a twice-told joke . Witless , formulaic material . The whole project works so hard at creating funny situations that Lawrence gets no chance to be funny as himself . Big Momma 's House seldom finds anything funny for Lawrence to do in drag . Big Momma 's House is much like the baseball games we 've been seeing at Enron Field lately -- a lot of action with poor results . 	Big Momma 's House is funny in some parts , but it is essentially a one-joke movie .
lara croft tomb raider The plot is not a plot at all but one of those outlandish fantasy premises that one can swallow in the interests of propelling a game , but sounds embarrassingly silly when spoken aloud . This film does n't just want you to turn your brain off , it wants you to dropkick it into your neighbor 's backyard swimming pool . A series of spectacular set pieces filled with eye-popping special effects , although [ director Simon ] West does fall back on his trademarked overuse of sound . Despite Angelina Jolie being perfectly cast as the title character , and some imaginative set-pieces , it would n't be out of place to call this film boring , since it lacks the energy and wit it deserves . Here is a movie so monumentally silly , yet so wondrous to look at , that only a churl could find fault . This year 's Battlefield Earth . Any script that features dialogue about 'awesome and terrible powers ' in an unironic way should be put out of its misery before someone gets hurt . Do n't pack up your PC -- Tomb Raider the movie has nothing over its electronic counterpart . Quite simply , I had a blast watching it . repeat after me , `` it 's a video game , it 's a video game , it 's a video game '' . 	Angelina Jolie is perfect for the role of Lara Croft , but even she ca n't save the movie from a senseless plot and action sequences with no emotional impact .
herb and dorothy If Ripley 's Believe It or Not ! were still around , Herb and Dorothy Vogel would surely be in it for amassing a world-class art collection on the most ordinary of working-class salaries . When was the last time you saw older protags , or a happily married couple , in American film ? In this charming docu , the Vogels recall vividly their experiences in life and art over the past four decades . Ultimately , the tale is inspiring : Why ca n't we all be like the Vogels and become great collectors ? This easygoing movie fully captures the couple 's charm and offers a unique look at the '60s and '70s New York art scene . Former journalist Megumi Sasaki 's warmhearted celebration of these adorable do-gooders cements their significance to the art world and introduces them to the rest of us . As the film progresses , we become captivated by the enchanted existence [ Herb and Dorothy Vogel ] have made for themselves . Delightful , involving doc about an unlikely couple who became pioneer contemporary art collectors with working-class salaries . The Vogels [ Herb and Dorothy ] , sitting in their same old apartment , overflowing as ever , make for charming company . Sasaki balances her subjects ' yarns with insights into the cultural moment that shaped them and vice-versa , in particular the shift from abstract expressionism to the sparer gestures of minimalist and conceptual art . First-time filmmaker Megumi Sasaki 's documentary Herb & Dorothy is as simple and straightforward as the subjects of its title . 	While perhaps not as probing as it could have been , Megumi Sasaki 's languidly paced documentary is as entertaining as it is inspiring .
1017352-red sonja None of this would matter if Red Sonja was the least bit exciting , or sexy , or even funny . Instead , it`s lumbering , oddly prim and laughable . Deathless lines of dialogue like `` In life all is not swordplay '' make Red Sonja laughable in ways that the screenwriters did not intend . Red Sonja returns to those olden days when women were women and the menfolk stood around with funny hats on until called forth to be whacked at . Arnold 's last barbarian role -- worth it for that if nothing else . No , he 's NOT Conan this time ! Unwatchably bad sword-and-sorcery nonsense . Worst of all , there 's a charmless brat prince for Sonja to take under her wing . It 's a truly horrible concoction , filled with stiff , overly serious dialogue , wretched performances , bad lighting and a lazy score by the otherwise great Ennio Morricone . The film is at least as good as Conan the Destroyer . Which is faint praise , indeed . Incredibly stupid 	Dull , poorly directed , and badly miscast , Red Sonja is an uninspired conclusion to Schwarzenegger 's barbarian trilogy .
wild hogs None of the actors has a character to play , but each brings a likable persona to Wild Hogs , and that helps smooth over more of the stinky script 's rough edges than you 'd expect . It 's hard to hate it , trashing the film would be kind of like kicking a puppy in the head . I can only assume a bike wreck is much more gruesome than a car accident . Luckily , I have never seen one , but after watching Wild Hogs , I can imagine . Somehow , Hogs is n't a torture device ; in fact , it 's pretty amusing when it puts its mind to it . No cliche goes unloved in this piddle about four aging Cincinnati dudes who try to find their bliss by hog-riding till they reach the Pacific . All of a sudden there 's hope for `` Gigli '' ! There are a couple of genuinely funny sight gags , but most of the roadside attractions of Wild Hogs are either boring or outright annoying . The entire cast aquits itself and none do anything so embarrassing that they can continue to have something to fall back on when they make bad investments . The film does go for the cheap laugh far too often , but it 's certainly not bad enough to be grouped along with the rest of this season 's trash . Are so many American men so oppressed by the 'horrors ' of modern life -- high cholesterol , uppity wives , smartass children , cell phones , boring jobs , the general dead-eyed awfulness of suburbia -- that they need a stupid movie like this one to tell them t 	Wild Hogs is a dreadful combination of fish-out-of-water jokes , slapstick , and lazy stereotypes .
1083171-perfect murder While the resolution may never be in doubt , how the film arrives there is a constant source of pleasure . I think it works like a nasty little machine to keep us involved and disturbed ; my attention never strayed , and one of the elements I liked was the way Paltrow 's character is n't sentimentalized . Somewhere , Alfred Hitchcock is yawning . ... the film is so lacking in anything original that it is hardly worth recommending . ... A Perfect Murder has inexplicably managed to eliminate almost everything that was worthwhile about Dial M for Murder , leaving behind the nearly-unwatchable wreckage of a would-be '90s thriller . An effective remake of an ineffective Hitchcock thriller . ... there 's nothing about this thriller to prevent it from soon becoming enmeshed in the memory with others in which Michael Douglas wears a starched collar and grits his teeth . A resoluo no faz jus s duas primeiras horas de projeo . ... snoozy , slack ... What the film lacks is suspense , surprise ( the new ending is a dud ) and passion . 	A slick little thriller that relies a bit too much on surprise events to generate suspense .
conan the barbarian Too dull to be unintentionally funny . Even 17 years after its release , Conan the Barbarian still weaves a spell capable of ensorcelling fans of fantasy adventure . A stirringly grandiose music-video epic OK sandals and loin cloth muscle adventure ... which made Arnold a star . Its magnificence stems from the very properties we should be condemning with all our might . Conan the Barbarian by John Millius is ... one of the top ten motion pictures ever made . A film that only wants to be described by the single adjective `` awesome '' , though `` epic '' would do in a pinch . Let 's face it : Arnold is well-cast . But the movie takes itself way too seriously . Not since Bambi 's mother was killed has there been a cannier movie for kids than Conan the Barbarian . Schwarzenegger has probably never been better-cast . 	Though Conan may take itself too seriously for some , this adventure film about a former slave seeking vengeance is full of quotable Schwarzenegger lines and gritty action .
1084398-life is beautiful A dramatic rendition of the fortitude required to reclaim the violated spirit and the imaginary optimism needed to save a dying innocence . Inspiring , heartrending , funny , sad , surprising and richly imagined . Benigni 's point , made with tender sensitivity , is that a child 's innocence is worth protecting . The picture does n't work , at least not to the extent it was intended to . You 'll laugh ! You 'll cry ! You 'll smile through the evils of genocide ! One more brave and indispensible little film about the Holocaust , this one from an unlikely source , comic Roberto Benigni . Benigni 's movie made me want to throw up . Sentimental and contrived , Benigni 's well-intentioned Holocaust dramedy may only work as a children 's fable . Inexplicably , it won a prize at the 1998 Cannes Festival . The movie manages to incorporate all these things into a moving yet unsentimental story about the beauty of maintaining one 's wits while stumbling blindly in the insane no man 's land that lies beyond wit 's end . Three parts Charles Chaplin to one part Buster Keaton , Benigni 's guileless courtship fable is a latter-day screwball farce in the best sense . 	Benigni 's earnest charm , when not overstepping its bounds into the unnecessarily treacly , offers the possibility of hope in the face of unflinching horror .
lenfant 2006 Hooks you in with its near-inconceivable but sadly realistic premise and tugs you along by the tightened heart strings . Although it devolves into traditional formula , the film still retains intrigue with its impenetrable central character . A genuine tale of redemption . It 's a thin story and the film is unremarkable in cinematic terms , except for the tension that the Dardennes manage to maintain , thanks to top performances from Jrmie Renier and Dborah Franois Un baldazo de realidad que confirma a los hermanos Dardenne como dos sensibles observadores de personajes marginales . The Dardennes ' eye for detail and feel for character rhythms give it an authenticity , and their compassion and belief in redemption give us a reason to care . The filmmakers let many scenes linger too long but manage to achieve a sense of realism that occasionally packs dramatic punch . A likable -- not lovable -- Child . If you 've never seen a Dardenne picture , this is the one you should rush to see . 5 out of 5 stars L'Enfant is a forceful , impassioned and unsparing triumph from Jean-Pierre and Luc Dardenne . L'Enfant nudges both its protagonist and its audience toward unlikely affection . What is astonishing , and most admirable , is the way the filmmakers manage to create sympathy for this pathetic loser . 	The Dardennes continue to excel at presenting works of rigorous naturalism , with detached observations of authentic characters that nevertheless resonate with complex moral issues .
henry poole is here Pop songs hold the skinny plot together , but a surprisingly caustic Luke Wilson is the medicine that helps the sugar go down . If ever a movie pushed my cynicism buttons , this one was it ... Gooey , ponderous , and maudlin . It 's less a tale of religious rebirth than a faith-based Hallmark card . Sober discussions give way to a clumsily handled finale that does n't stand a prayer of satisfying most discerning viewers . A few smart turns in a forest of stupid does n't make a film smart . As it bludgeons us with sappy talk of miracles and a ridiculously loud , these ! songs ! are ! meaningful ! soundtrack , the film is more likely to inspire cynicism than hope . Henry Poole Is Here is the subject of a great concept which is executed well in the acting and writing department but suffers from its awful music choices . A stronger script focus and less unanswered questions about Henry Poole might have made the film more appealing . Henry Poole Is Here is a movie that asks all the big questions and then , weirdly , wrecks itself by offering puny answers . The only big question you may be asking yourself after watching this will probably be `` What could [ fill in the name of any of the talented people inexplicably involved here ] have possibly been thinking when they signed on ? '' 	Full of Hallmark-truisms and pop songs presented with strained significance , this comic foible intends less to convert than to preach to the choir .
1013139-maltese falcon The Maltese Falcon ( 1941 ) is one of the most popular classic detective mysteries ever made , and one of the first in the dark film noir genre . Best in noir - Best in Bogie - One of the best ever . Filmed almost entirely in interiors , it presents a claustrophobic world animated by betrayal , perversion and pain . With its dark , complex plotting , stark black-and-white photography , concentration on the baseness of man , and a cynical mood sustained to its still shockingly grim conclusion , this is the prototypical film noir . The definitive Sam Spade portrayal . It 's rare when you get everything to work so well as it does in this pic . ... part of what makes a film great is its power to obliterate whatever preconceptions we bring to it . There is brittle wit and sparkling harm and a very adult sense of fun present in The Maltese Falcon ; it still works as a movie A true masterpiece . Who can argue with Bogart 's glower or Mary Astor in her ratty fur ? One of the most brilliant directorial debuts in Hollywood 's history , this gem of a movie catapulted Humphrey Bogart to major stardom , offering one of his finest roles ( with many memorable lines ) as detective Sam Spade . 	Suspenseful , labyrinthine , and brilliantly cast , The Maltese Falcon is one of the most influential noirs -- as well as a showcase for Humphrey Bogart at his finest .
the theory of everything 2014 Pleasing to watch ... but [ leaves ] little lasting impression . A pair of very strong performances ca n't keep The Theory of Everything from succumbing to the stultifying gravity of biopic conventions . The Theory of Everything is everything you did n't know about Stephen Hawking . That it works is a testament to its strong performances and a real sense of empathy toward both sides of the featured relationship . The Theory of Everything is surely inspirational , but it glosses over some ugly chapters in Stephen and Jane 's relationship . As gentle , reliable , and pretty to look at as the falling of the leaves . It also has approximately the same level of dramatic tension . It would be easy to fall into the trap of wishing this look at one of the greatest minds on the planet was something more , dare I say , intellectual . But this movie is a love story . And a fine love story it is . Absorbingly lovely and sad ... It still feels formulaic , but that 's to be expected without being able to go very far beyond the range of the memoir it dutifully draws on . It 's disappointing to see Hawking 's life slotted into the conventions of the biopic genre , from a meet-cute at a Cambridge party to a centerstage ovation for our genius hero . 	Part biopic , part love story , The Theory of Everything rises on James Marsh 's polished direction and the strength of its two leads .
life aquatic Overall , un-evenly entertaining . Rich quality moments somewhat make up for substantial downtime . Undoubtedly , this will prove a risky film . A mixed-bag but worth a look . Anderson may be incapable of making a dull film -- he 's certainly incapable of making a dull-looking film -- and from its fake-docu introduction to its full-circle conclusion , his movie looks interesting and unique . The movie is so listless yet so proud of its whimsy that it demands someone to point out the obvious : in The Aquatic Life With Steve Zissou , Wes Anderson jumps the jaguar shark . There was some great action and some funny bits but I found this film a little too strange for my taste . This waterlogged bit of whimsy is the cinematic equivalent of a belly-flop . Director Wes Anderson 's best work to date . I guess I was just in the mood for ( Wes Anderson 's ) latest offering , `` The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou . '' The film 's storyline plays out as a comic riff on Moby-Dick , which is hilarious if you 're on Anderson 's wavelength but will probably bore to tears those who are n't . The result is something rich and strange , both a comedy of the absurd , and an allegory for all those who find themselves at sea . 	The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou is getting soaked by many critics , who call it smug , ironic and artificial . Still , others have praised the movie 's sheer uniqueness , eccentricity and whimsy .
antwone fisher What could have been heartfelt feels contrived and manipulative . A crowd-pleasing tearjerker ... a film whose earnestness and dignity almost ( though not quite ) overcome the narrative 's sentimentality and lack of surprise . `` Antwone Fisher '' is an earnest , by-the-numbers effort by Washington . It wo n't rock any boats but is solid meat-and-potatoes filmmaking . Though the screenplay -- written by the real-life Fisher -- seems a bit self-aggrandizing , even stone-hearted cynics would be wise to pack tissues . ... an extremely touching story Washington is customarily solid as the naval shrink , but directs without imagination or flair , sticking to Hollywood conventions and skimming over the harsher aspects of Fisher 's life . Everything -- even life on an aircraft carrier -- is sentimentalized . For sure , Antwone Fisher is corny . But it 's corny in a way that a Hollywood movie about a boy who just wants to go home ought to be corny . At first I thought that it was just the black version of Good Will Hunting , but it turned into so much more . Fisher greedily encourages Washington and Hollywood to rape his integrity in the name of Ben Franklin , not to mention Oscar . 	Washington 's directing debut is a solidly crafted , emotionally touching work .
the good lie 2013 The rougher edges of the likes of In This World or The Golden Dream were perhaps beyond its multiplex-oriented remit , but Falardeau works in surprising levels of funny , winning , stirring detail . There are lessons to be learned here . And ultimately the heart of `` The Good Lie '' is in the right place . Although it falters when it strays from the immigrant perspective , The Good Lie is an undeniably powerful drama , rooted in authentic performances from its four main actors . There 's a sense that The Good Lie wants to say something profound but the message is as muddled as its delineation of history is . A big , eager puppy of an issue movie that plants its paws on your chest and licks away at your cheek in eager expectation of praise . This is n't just another film that puts a white face on the black experience , as in 'Cry Freedom , ' 'Mississippi Burning ' and 'The Last King of Scotland . ' It really is about three young men trying to make a go in a new land . The finely calibrated performances of the three leading men pull the film through to its moving conclusion . The pieces do n't always fit together as neatly as you might wish , but if you let it , `` The Good Lie 's '' heartwarming soul will win you over . The film belongs to three actors you 've never heard of , but if putting Witherspoon 's mug on the poster is what it takes to get people to go see it , then that 's a good lie . A fascinating look at what happened to many Sudanese refugees , but also at how people who come from underprivileged parts of the world experience the United States . 	The Good Lie sacrifices real-life nuance in order to turn its true story into a Hollywood production , but the results still add up to a compelling , well-acted , and deeply moving drama .
tupac resurrection The film gives a fine sense of why Shakur 's fans carry the torch for his legacy . But it 's better from the perspective of that spirit on the streets , not up in the clouds . A strong film , with some genuinely revealing insights into the life of its charismatic and paradoxical subject . Lazin 's documentary may be somewhat one-sided -- Afeni Shakur 's involvement guaranteed that -- but it 's still immensely enlightening , and a genuine gift to Tupac 's fans . This is an important document and a fresh , intimate portrayal . Intriguing but ultimately frustrating . Informative and interesting reflections on his life by the man himself . Resurrection is clearly pitched to fans who want a warts-and-some , officially sanctioned memento of their fallen hero . Fans , of course , will devour this film , but there 's plenty to chew on for the uninitiated as well . While Tupac : Resurrection includes some never-before- seen family photos and performance footage , and excerpts from the late rapper 's journals , it offers little in the way of new information or insight into the rapper 's world . Lazin 's film gets off to a bad start with a miscalculated opening sequence presented in a way that implies we 're listening to Shakur speak about his own murder , an impossibility that undermines the film 's documentary credibility . 	There 's no question where the director 's loyalty lies in this one-sided tribute ; however , Tupac 's charisma makes this doc an engaging sit .
alvin and the chipmunks chipwrecked 2011 The gags are mostly slapstick and , as such , are a welcome change from the smut of adult Hollywood these days . Shrill , silly and furry - these squeaky-voiced , computer-generated rodents are back for their third formulaic frolic . How is 'Alvin and the Chipmunks : Chipwrecked ? ' Abysmal to anyone over the age of 7 . ( Content Review for Parents also available ) Silly threequel is full of pop-culture references and jokes . Ratatouille aside , our children should not be playing with disease-carrying rodents . Good news : The shrill CG rodents , who last infested theaters in 2009 's Squeakquel , are stranded on a jungle island with little hope of survival . Bad news : They 've brought us along . Only David Cross , as arch-enemy Ian Hawke , manages to wring a few laughs from the sodden script , but for those you have to listen to such Chipmunk teen speak as `` totally adorbs '' for 90 minutes . The ship 's captain , at the beginning of the film , is named Captain Corelli . This little item kept me amused for a good ten minutes . I briefly fantasized about how it might have perked up last week 's `` New Year 's Eve '' if Zac Efron or Hilary Swank had a romance with one of the chipmunks of either gender . It might divert the tiniest tots but grumpy adults will be wondering why Dave did n't call in pest control long ago . 	Lazy , rote , and grating , Chipwrecked is lowest-common-denominator family entertainment that 's strictly for the very , very , very young at heart .
american beauty Shrouded in ugliness despite brilliant performances by Bening and Spacey . American Beauty is an American Classic . Because the film 's visual conception and most of its performances have such disturbing power , in dreamlike fragments American Beauty is able to burrow inside the cliche to understand how it came to be . This is Spacey 's best performance since he took home an Oscar for The Usual Suspects . Beauty is never less than fascinating and always visually stunning . There are times when `` American Beauty '' feels like it might be toppling over into melodrama , but Mendes grabs the reins and reels his actors in , generating power and a lot of perspiration in the process . Wildly funny and unpredictable . Surprising and enjoyable . An original , a tour-de-force exhibition of acting missing from the movie screen so far this year . American Beauty brings a bracing blend of cunning , insight and compassion to the drama of a suburban family coming apart . 	Flawlessly cast and brimming with dark , acid wit , American Beauty is a smart , provocative high point of late '90s mainstream Hollywood film .
1048445-snow white and the seven dwarfs Walt Disney 's greatest achievement , the sensation of the motion picture industry ... Unbelievably beautiful ... Unutterably charming ... The beloved fairy tale comes to vivid life . The first time was the charm with the queen , probably still the most effective , scariest , and coolest villain Disney has yet created . ... the animation itself is top-notch , and in a number of darker sequences ( Snow White 's terrified entry into the forest , for example ) , Disney 's adoption of Expressionist visual devices makes for genuinely powerful drama . Most remarkable in Snow White 's romps through the forest with her pack of animal pals , Disney 's brilliant cell animation has rarely been equaled . Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs may not be the 'fairest of them all , ' but being the very first of them all is reason enough to admire the effort . While I see the film 's importance from a technical aspect and laud it for its sense of mood , it 's not at the top of my list of animated classics . So perfect is the illusion , so tender the romance and fantasy , so emotional are certain portions when the acting of the characters strikes a depth comparable to the sincerity of human players , that the film approaches real greatness . It 's a delightful family fantasy film that is timeless , one that both children and adults can enjoy . Always a classic To say of Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs that it is among the genuine artistic achievements of this country takes no great daring . 	With its involving story and characters , vibrant art , and memorable songs , Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs set the animation standard for decades to come .
soul power documents the bass line running under the absurdly politicized , hyper-kinetic boxing match that found Muhammed Ali facing off against then-titan George Forman Documentary about the three-day music festival preceding the famous Ali-Foreman fight has its moments , but plays too much like what it is : outtakes from the Oscar-winning When We Were Kings . The sporadic appearances by Ali hopelessly unbalance the proceedings , his fiercely outspoken interviews providing the only morsels of substance . `` Soul Power '' is an imperfect social document of a time when anything seemed possible . Here 's proof that Michael Jackson never had a thing on James Brown . Likeable documentary that serves as a fascinating companion piece to When We Were Kings . A thrilling time machine that lets you travel to Zaire in 1974 to see legendary performers bringing it all back home . [ Soul Power ] , even with its classic performers and songs , falls short of sparking the thrill it should . Soul Power is a window into a time when anything seemed possible . Watching Soul Power is like flipping through Polaroids of that era . The color is a little washed out and everyone looks amazingly young . While there 's an awful lot to like about this infectious celebration of a remarkable event featuring some superb , larger-than-life performers at the top of their game , the enterprise comes across as a bit of a missed opportunity . 	Featuring some incredible performances from many 70s soul legends , Soul Power is an exhilarating snap-shot of a bygone era .
born on the fourth of july As deeply felt as Platoon , as graphic and unrelenting as Salvador , but it 's less manipulative than the former and more dramatically integrated than the latter , because Cruise anchors the movie . Born on the Fourth of July is ... the most ambitious nondocumentary film yet made about the entire Vietnam experience . Tom Cruise proves he 's more than a chiseled face in Stone 's anti-war epic . This is a sad case of a film with high and noble intentions that features great dramatic performances , but it ends up being a superficial epic , diluted , limited , and strangely unmoving . Stone has created a film whose overblown parts add up to far less than the epic whole he had in mind . Oliver Stone ( Best Director Oscar ) directs this film about individuals whose traditional patriotism is ambushed by the Vietnam War and reborn in political protest . I 'll give Stone credit for capturing the craziness of Kovic 's life , but he fails to give a human face to his free fall . Nothing Cruise has done will prepare you for what he does in Born on the Fourth of July . A compelling , elegiac film , particularly encouraging after the simplified morality of Platoon . Stone does populist anti-war with a passion . 	Led by an unforgettable performance from Tom Cruise , Born on the Fourth of July finds director Oliver Stone tackling thought-provoking subject matter with ambitious lan .
big lebowski Outrageously fun . Loopy , unfathomable , profane and very funny . This time , they have all the parts together , but someone forgot the glue . It never really bored me at any point , but at the same time , it never really excited me either . There are more ideas here , more wacko side characters and plot curlicues than the film can support , and inevitably it deflates from having to shoulder so much . Since The Big Lebowski does n't have an idea in its head , it has to fill the empty space with 'witty ' conceits [ The Coens ] rummaged through political and personal history for the underpinnings of this Los Angeles caper , from 1998 , sending up , with rueful astonishment , the American way of war . It 's the wealth of great characters and their insane dialogue that make this a memorable film . It 's the whole proud , embarrassing sociopolitical , cultural heap of American history-and the American Century in particular-in two fleet , funny hours . [ Blu-ray ] Definitively the coolest comedy in a long time . 	Typically stunning visuals and sharp dialogue from the Coen Brothers , brought to life with strong performances from Goodman and Bridges .
gosford park Every detail rings true ; every performance , even the briefest , is a gem . Gosford Park is less a sobering microcosm than it is comically subversive , a great , convoluted upending of period conventions . Despite its little twists and departures from the norm , Gosford Park is basically a crowd-pleaser , a slight film with a fat ensemble all keen to entertain . Pret-a-Porter and Dr. T. & and the Women , tarnished his '90s comeback , but the ornery Altman is back in top form here . Altman 's finest work in years , a stinging yet sensitive satire tempered by a tender sympathy for his repressed souls . Tells a story that is important , heartfelt and very , very sad . Altman 's fecklessness pretty much reduces the likes of Derek Jacobi and Alan Bates to bit players who have n't been given any bits . What is most gratifying is watching the most American of directors capture the English idiom so well . One of those rare films that yields even more on subsequent viewings than it does on its first engaging encounter . Cinema used to its full artistic potential 	A mixture of Upstairs , Downstairs , Clue , and perceptive social commentary , Gosford Park ranks among director Altman 's best .
beastly In every aspect , from story to tone to characterization to visual aesthetic , it 's laughably perfunctory , as though everyone involved were too embarrassed to give it more than a half-ironic token effort . It would be disturbing if it were n't so incompetently hilarious . To redo The Beauty and the Beast and introduce a movie version of classic literature to a texting addicted , reading challenged generation , at least do it right . Undeveloped characters , undeveloped performances , undeveloped emotions and a mess of a script that could have benefited greatly from an extensive rewrite . Or at least some singing crockery . Teens convinced that a pimple will kill their social life will find Beastly bracingly honest . It 's the cynicism , not the phoned-in uplift , that works in this JV Grand Guignol . Trite and formulaic , Beastly is an inoffensive snooze . An adequate updating of the `` Beauty and the Beast '' tale for a sliver of young film fans How ridiculous , corny , and obvious is all this ? `` Beastly '' is not the best or the worst teen movie I 've ever seen , but given the talented cast ( especially Harris ) , I would have loved to see them tackle a more realistic reboot . So this is n't a great re-imagining of the classic fairy tale Beauty and the Beast , but Beastly does have mass tweener appeal . 	Fundamentally misguided , poorly written , and badly acted , Beastly adds little to the legacy of its timeless source material .
10009926-alvin and the chipmunks 2 Whatever limited charms the first version had -- mostly David Cross ' portrayal of Ian , the greedy manager who exploits the furry creatures -- have since soured . The whole thing is rather insipid . But Thomas makes it smoother and more palatable than it deserves to be . It 's far from the most unpleasant kiddie flick I 've sat through this year , although I would be misleading you if I promised you lots of laughs . Parental Content Review Throwaway fun at some points of the film , but on the whole it 's simply very frustrating . In a crowded cinema , this is every post-pubescent 's nightmare . Watching talented , funny people like Zachary Levi , David Cross and Wendie Malick go from one demeaning and painfully stupid situation to the next is excruciating . Whatever slim charms there were in the nostalgic , musically cute and slapstick-friendly first film of chipmunk mania are squished right out of The Squeakquel like so much rodent roadkill . They call this the `` squeakquel '' and that 's about all you 'll want to know about a film that remorselessly pulls all the levers of the first highly successful box-office attraction . Alvin and the Chipmunks : The Squeakquel offers exactly two big laughs for its kiddo target audience -- one involves passing gas , the other a shot to the crotch . 	This Squeakquel may entertain the kiddies , but it 's low on energy and heavily reliant on slapstick humor .
talk radio Talk Radio is directed by Stone with a claustrophobic intensity . Talk Radio is an exhaustively and exhaustingly unpleasant portrait of an unpleasant guy . The monologues are chilling , but too many subplots interfere with them . The film has a purposefully repellent but fascinating quality . Bogosian`s performance , based on his stage play , is spectacularly demented . It 's midnight in America and there 's a lot of angry people out there in the darkness . If that 's the main point to Oliver Stone 's Talk Radio , it 's the only one . Powerful . Eric Bogosian is a revelation . As a director , Stone has a way of merging with the point of view of his protagonists , which is to say that his films are as jittery , wired-up and fragmented as they are . If you 've ever listened to late-night talkback and found some of the callers unsettling , you 're bound to relive that feeling Oliver Stone 's Talk Radio makes you laugh , makes you mad and keeps you edgily watching for the killers in the shadows . Oliver Stone 's overly dramatic new ending puts a damper on things , but Bogosian has never been more magnetic 	The gripping union of a director and star at the peak of their respective powers , Talk Radio offers the viewer a singularly unlikable character and dares you to look away .
the cabin in the woods Equal parts `` Hatchet '' and `` Hunger Games , '' `` The Cabin in the Woods '' is a successful mix of horror and science fiction . Ranks among one of the most wryly self-aware works of American pop culture entertainment in years . To say that TheCabin in the Woods is n't your average horror movie is like observing that King Kong is n't your average ape . What follows is what could be described as a clever and wildly fun deconstruction and reassembly of the standard Hollywood horror flick . A smart , and occasionally daring , homage to horror movies that both satirizes the genre and brings new life to it . An original and audacious horror-comedy that oftentimes works better than it should . Though there are plot holes in the elaborately concocted scenarios , The Cabin in the Woods gets points for the twists and turns that come along with its sly wickedness . [ Whedon finds ] an inventive way to subvert the genre with a re-twist of the dreaded knife of horror , and a very acute Big Brother eye . a genre film that offers a considerable amount of horror and a lot of fun , especially as the leading characters seem to be variations on the old Scooby-Doo team . This is a movie that knows it is capitalizing on the clichs and stupidity of its genre , but refuses to bow to the same simple-minded standards to achieve something more 	The Cabin in the Woods is an astonishing meta-feat , capable of being funny , strange , and scary -- frequently all at the same time .
the future You end up feeling sorry for the cat but not for Sophie and Jason , who seem unable to deal with life , love or , in fact , anything . July 's second film , while not quite as perfectly realised as her debut , nimbly avoids the 'sophomore slump ' , providing the curious with another window into her highly idiosyncratic world . July 's film-making is a taste I have yet fully to acquire , but she has a distinctive vision , a style , placed before you on a take-it-or-leave-it basis . I took it . July , who gave us the lovably odd Me and You and Everyone We Know , has layered on so much self-conscious whimsy - monologues from the cat , dialogues with the moon and other dashes of magical realism - that the central drama struggles to be heard . Miranda July takes the twee and cute thing WAY too far this time I 've seen The Future ... and it 's not bad at all . It 's easy to be distracted by the talking cat or the talking moon , but they are merely wallpaper over a yawning chasm of panic and disappointment . Miranda July may be a bit too weird for her own good . On the other hand , it is a glorious weird . whimsy both conceals and sugars some rather bitter observations on change and mortality . Many viewers , especially her detractors , ca n't see the forest for the twee in July 's films . That 's certainly true of `` The Future '' - but burrow down past the creepy-cutesy touches , and you find a film that 's painfully real . 	A dark and whimsical exploration of human existence that challenges viewers as much as it rewards them .
swingers Inventive , smart and very funny . Swingers is uneven , amateurish and borderline misogynistic . But it 's also very funny , and it never loses its cool . A guy film that gives you something to latch onto , that makes male bonding both believable and appealing . One of those very rare movies where you really come out a changed , happier person -- at least for awhile . Hey , maybe I 'm money , and I do n't even know it ! An independent film shot for around $ 250,000 that lacks a cutting-edge , something indie films should not leave home without . Fresh , zesty , if unfortunately titled , Swingers rocks . Blessed with a brilliantly quotable screenplay , one of the most electric and insightful ever written . Director-cinematographer Doug Liman gets points for breathing a bit of life into an already tired indie sub genre . [ An ] insubstantial but satisfying project that 's a good movie for 20-somethings and everyone else who wants to get a smile out of someone else 's relationship angst for a change . It has an energetic , snappy script , punctuated by countless great lines , a strong ensemble cast , while Doug Liman 's direction is fresh and alive . 	Funny , heartfelt , and effortlessly cool , Swingers made stars out of Vince Vaughn and Jon Favreau , established Doug Liman as a director to watch .
star trek iii the search for spock Familiarity breeds contempt since this is not really a notable entry in the Star Trek series . If Wrath of Khan is the 'action ' entry and Voyage Home is the 'comedy ' installment , then Search for Spock is the 'drama ' - and it 's a damn good entry overall . It 's reasonably entertaining fare for non-fans . It has the physique and will of a bold adventurer , but it 's afflicted with acute brain-stem damage . Mixed in among some of Trekdom 's best moments are some of the canon 's sloppiest choices ... Directed by Leonard Nimoy , this episode could best be described as functional , in that the situation is interesting enough for a routine episode of the TV show . These are classic directorial occasions , and Nimoy rises to them with fervor , in effect beaming his film up onto a higher pictorial plane than either of its predecessors . This 1984 film 's few and unimpressive special effects evidently qualify it as science fiction , but the genre it really belongs to is the male weepie : there has n't been a gooier buddy romance on the screen since Joe Buck took Ratso Rizzo to Miami . Cheesy but cool , especially when Spock gets his space burial by being ejected into space in a giant sunglasses case . This is a good but not great Star Trek movie , a sort of compromise between the first two . One of the best of the series . 	Though it may be short on dazzling special effects , The Search for Spock is still a strong Star Trek installment , thanks to affecting performances by its iconic cast .
princess diaries The film is broad , cute , and calculated at every turn . To be effective , many movies require the viewer to engage in a willing suspension of disbelief . For The Princess Diaries to work , the viewer will have to engage in a willing suspension of higher brain activity . A light , uneven Pygmalion story that may win young girls over with its wish fulfilment theme and teen movie staples , but does not live up to the expectations created by the cast and director . These diaries have too many dull pages and not enough juicy bits to keep you interested . So aggressively bland and inoffensive that it practically recedes from the screen . Despite two decent performances from Anne Hathaway and Julie Andrews , this harmless , recyclable comedy by Garry Marshall ca n't help but deliver the same old thing , in the same old way , with little spark and even less believability . This innocuous , frothy fairy tale is n't so off-putting as you might imagine , thanks in large part to Andrews ' ageless charm . This fairy tale , which feels as if it were made in the 1960s , deatures a star-making performance from the child-actress Anne Hathaway Andrews ' performance is the spoon full of sugar that helps this medicine go down . Those in the target audience will love it . 	A charming , if familiar , makeover movie for young teenage girls .
tin cup Costner has n't been this charming and spontaneous for years . The dialogue and characters are convincing and intelligently developed . Russo wears vulnerability and neediness like a second skin , while Costner plays the tragic hero with considerable charm . Kevin Costner 's golfing romance has OK swing but bad form . Tin Cup works for viewers of any handicap . Breaking down the golf trajectories into separate shots during the sports climax comes across as an expedient form of cheating -- the very opposite of authenticity . Like other Shelton movies , it 's dappled with interesting characters . All the golf action and happy `` feel-good '' emotions that audiences expect ( and want ) but ... without following the traditional sports movie conventions . As sports movies go ( regardless of the sport ) , this one turns in a respectable showing , injecting some intelligence and maturity into a story that easily could have succumbed to a flood of 'struggling underdog ' cliches . Nobody in Hollywood knows more about sports and is less sentimental about them than Shelton . A formula sports comedy with a lot of non-formula human comedy . 	Breezy and predictable , Tin Cup is a likeable sports comedy that benefits greatly from Kevin Costner 's amiable lead performance .
1015052-night of the living dead There is a resounding lack of sentimentality that cuts through the death and chaos , as a desperate bunch of people fight to stay alive . Landmark horror film somewhat blunted by bad acting . This little seat-of-the-pants regional production chewed up and spit out taboos like raw meat in a feral feeding frenzy . A tightly-edited , claustrophobically-framed horror film that retains , along with its relevance , its ability to startle and appall . reinvented the American horror film I felt real terror in that neighborhood theater last Saturday afternoon . I saw kids who had no resources they could draw upon to protect themselves from the dread and fear they felt . Shocks come from the way in which Romero repeatedly presents a clichd situations in which we think we know what 's going on , only for Romero to pull out the rug from underneath , thereby producing a greater shock . Sorry , but it really is n't that scary in this day and age . Oft-copied zombie classic is still intense and gory . One of the most nightmarish films ever made , and one that 's still hard to laugh off today . 	George A. Romero 's debut set the template for the zombie film , and features tight editing , realistic gore , and a sly political undercurrent .
brooklyn castle 2012 Every player knows the finality when the other player sadly turns over his king , signaling surrender . We know it even better when we do it ourselves . The film 's structure is routine , but the film does n't sidestep its more serious issues , while its charming subjects make it a winner both on and off the chessboard . ... a powerful and positive story about dedicated teachers helping kids succeed no matter what their circumstances Set against a backdrop of deep budget cuts and high-stakes testing , this story makes an eloquent plea for the crucial but endangered role of afterschool programs in public education . What may well be the most optimistic , inspiring and downright thrilling movie released all year ... Overlong . It wanders . It needs trimming . But the director never goes far wrong when she just hangs with the kids , focusing on their focus , capturing their disappointment at losses and the thrill of each victory on the chessboard . With Brooklyn Castle it 's really nice to see so many young , positive minds at play in the world , and to cheer on so many smiling children dreaming of enlightened futures . The admirable Brooklyn Castle transcends its formula to become an optimistic look at extracurricular education and young people . Like chess , not exactly a high-energy experience but seeing what these kids accomplish , seemingly against all odds is breathtaking all the same . Among the team 's racially diverse roster , four leaders emerge ; sticking doggedly to the competition-doc template , Dellamaggiore traces their parallel paths to the finals . 	Brooklyn Castle is a warm , engaging , and even uplifting documentary about chess-playing whiz kids .
in bruges McDonagh 's trademark is dark humor , the ability to humanize inhuman situations , and plot twists you do n't see coming . Expect all of these here , along with gorgeous cinematography by Eigil Bryld . Just when you think you 've seen every possible variation on the hit-man genre , Irish playwright Martin McDonagh in his feature debut has fashioned an audacious combination of Old World grace and modern ultraviolence . An entertaining blend of dark comedy , gruesome suspense and tender emotion It is easily one of the best debut feature films in recent memory . The notion of a pair of hit men cooling their heels as they 're forced to play tourist in a picture-postcard town is clever enough . But as the story unspools , it grows more intriguing . After losing his way in things like Alexander , Ask the Dust and Miami Vice , Farrell has never been better . Funny and thrilling , you 'll find redemption In Bruges An unfunny comedy , this dismal effort is so full of plot holes it could pass as Swiss Cheese Gleeson reminds us that the best acting always looks like no acting at all . After playing one too many sullen poseurs it 's clear Colin Farrell and Ralph Fiennes had a ball making an inky black comedy seething with grandiose invective . A shaggy , not-all-that-good-but-good-enough gangster comedy ... violent , intermittently amusing and very 1992 . 	Featuring witty dialogue and deft performances , In Bruges is an effective mix of dark comedy and crime thriller elements .
not another teen movie Another major culprit here is Joel Gallen , a former MTV exec whose idea of 'direction ' is to drive a joke into the ground and continue to milk it long after it has become annoying . There simply is n't anything to say about it -- good or bad . Maybe that 's because it is n't a movie at all , just a string of scenes . It was not good to see yet still more wretched excess in the jokes about characters being sprayed with vast quantities of excrement . Despite an occasional laugh here and a chuckle there -- comes off as a hit or miss endeavor that unfortunately has more of the latter and never comes close to kicking into comedic overdrive . The targets may be obvious , but director Joel Gallen and his squad of screenwriters happen to be the first to open fire . They ca n't help but score plenty of hits . Will you remember ( it ) six months after you see it ? Probably not . But you will remember that you had a good time watching it . If you have a high tolerance for unblinking gross-out gags and you love making fun of Freddie Prinze Jr. flicks , odds are you 'll have a good time with this one . No vale la pena gastar el dinero en un monumento a la estulticia y la superficialidad como es esta cinta . Not Another Teen Movie is Hollywood 's answer to the Whoopee Cushion . If you have n't brushed up on the latest Freddie Prinze Jr. bomb , you 'll simply feel stuck in detention . 	NATM has some funny moments , but the movie requires the audience to have familiarity with the movies being spoofed and a tolerance for toilet and sexual humor to be truly effective .
cinderella story In this awkward , updated fairy tale , the shallow , bland script drowns in so many cliches that it becomes tedious , except for the most devoted `` Lizzie McGuire '' fans . This teen movie is all about the packaging . A couple of cruel stepsisters are thrown in to push the Cinderella angle , but their asinine antics merely highlight first-time screenwriter Leigh Dunlap 's stunning lack of talent and imagination . With a few hilarious exceptions , the jokes are bland and unfunny , and the fairy tale reinventions are n't creative or witty enough . A Cinderella Story misfires as a comedy and offers no fresh twists or clever turns on this ancient fairy tale . I 'm too much of a man to enjoy this movie ... Remarkably , Duff is not annoying . The sort of entertainment that makes you happy to be grown up and able to avoid the current onslaught of trite , lazy , unimaginative films aimed at tween-agers . Nothing 's particularly risky or original , but neither is anything all that repulsive . Writer Leigh Dunlap and director Mark Rosman tart up their Cinderella variation with the predictable accoutrements of teen comedies . Modern footwear simply does n't fit this perennial fairy tale heroine , who 's been reborn as a Valley Girl in a rendition that stumbles in almost every conceivable way . 	An uninspired , generic updating of the classic fairy tale .
tangerines Because the conflict between Abkhazians and Georgians is so sketchily drawn , the ultimate heartwarming tone of the film seems not so much unearned as unspectacular . A lovely , unassuming anti-war film that all adults should see . The shift from philosophical parrying to actual combat does n't make Tangerines more compelling ; on the contrary , it suggests that the filmmakers did n't have the confidence to tell their story without falling back on genre tropes . The cinema , so infatuated with loud bangs and flowering orange blasts , does , as Ivo says , cheat us . Director/writer Zaza Urushadze instead gives us a clever , claustrophobic plot befitting a three-act play . Uses its small scale to say something big . It might be willfully nave , but it also successfully argues that the path to peace begins with a laying down of not only guns , but also cynicism and distrust . Nakhashidze is splendid as the malcontent ; he carries a life story in his world-weary facial expressions . Casting directors , take heed : This guy is a character-star waiting to be noticed . There are some touching interactions between the players , but the film 's humanism is too predictably calibrated . `` Tangerines '' is an example of lean , unadorned old-school filmmaking where familiar style and technique combine to unexpectedly potent effect because of the great skill with which they 've been employed . The film telegraphs its pacifist message early on , but it 's still deeply affecting . 	Tangerines ' impassioned message and the strong work of a solid cast more than make up for the movie 's flawed narrative and uneven structure .
up Up is a story of human bonds remembered and new ones forged , and never for one moment does it seems insincere or contrived . It feels nervy and adventurous and a little messy , the result of formidable creators and genuine wits working on an enormous budget , enormously well-spent . One of Pixar 's most emotionally satisfying creations . A thrilling , heartfelt and humorous family film with enough jubilant energy to lift you right off your seat . Because the movie 's grounded , it 's free to fly where it wants , and it does so with an exuberance and poignancy that at times feels majestic . Exudes a wit and wisdom that elevates it to the animated adventure apex . The look of Up is a world away from Pixar 's usual CGI intricacies -- simple in a way that only artists with a genius for complexity can achieve . An absolutely rollicking adventure , Up combines incredible animation with funny , old fashioned storytelling . No matter how you look at it , through the innocent eyes of a child or the wider , wiser worldview of an adult , the bright , buoyant Up brims with imagination , adventure , humor and heart . Pixar tops itself with its new animated offering Up , a movie so visually and emotionally skillful that it makes Monsters , Inc. look positively antic , Toy Story seem like mere child 's play , and WALL-E appear as sentimental fluff . 	An exciting , funny , and poignant adventure , Up offers an impeccably crafted story told with wit and arranged with depth , as well as yet another visual Pixar treat .
oss 117 lost in rio Dujardin has flawless comic timing as the hero who may stumble but -- with the arch of an eyebrow and a flash of a grin -- always rises to the defense of the Rpublique . A very funny French comedy of a variety that usually does n't make its way here . Sequelitis is apparently not purely an American phenomenon . The story is lame and the action is flaccid , but as Hubert would be the first to tell you , the French have a word for those who ca n't take a joke : c'est la vie . The tenor , tone and immaculately lampooned art direction often make up for shtick that gradually grows thin in the belly-laugh department . Writer-director Michel Hazanavicius amusingly sends up the genre 's visual and verbal codes , and relishes satirising OSS 117 's sexist and anti-Semitic views by pairing him with a beautiful female Mossad agent . Strutting around like a rooster in a thin-lapeled suit , 117 is n't much different from other comic Bond figures , but the movies find a fresh and exceedingly rich vein of comedy in his airy sexism , racism , and colonialism . Mr. Dujardin , a skilled comedian , deftly embodies the spy 's combination of cluelessness and condescension , but it 's an act that eventually wears thin . It 's larky , snarky fun . The part is tricky , but Jean Dujardin does it well , greeting every woman with a cocky Jean-Paul Belmondo smile , and every foreign disaster with calm . Thank heavens France is here to help ! 	Led by another appealing performance from Jean Dujardin , this sequel offers more absurdly fun action -- and more politically incorrect humor -- for fans of '60s spy films .
exorcist the beginning The prequel ... just goes to show , once again , that The Exorcist was a one-of-a-kind film . But you know how it goes : the power of cash compels them . What is rather horrifying is how this would-be thriller manages the bizarre feat of being simultaneously dull and completely ridiculous . Exorcist : The Beginning makes the mistake of confusing loud noises , grotesque images , obscene violence , and buckets of blood for frights . Not unlike Exorcist II . It 's a huge mess with passages of great beauty , juxtaposed with a few truly scary moments and a bunch of hokum and stupidity . Warner 's late-game recruiting of a vulgarian like Renny Harlin to tack on some barf-bag moments is simply an insult to fans of the original . The acting is serviceable at best , the direction unfocused -- and the special effects and makeup cheesy-looking . Schrader 's vision still comes through , despite Harlin 's excessive and posturing blood-letting . The pacing is slack , and the increased level of blood and guts seems like a desperate move . And most of the special effects ( especially the CGI work ) are really shoddy . A sincereand sincerely problematicfilm that may have been shot twice , but deserved a third try to get things right . This is what happens when an entire movie is created via reshoot . 	A mediocre , gory horror film , nowhere near the quality of the 1973 original .
adieu au langage This is a master filmmaker whose interest in form and its instruments have kept him vital . Unlike anything else you 'll see this year . Is it difficult , abrasive and pretentious ? Absolutely . But there are worse things to be than any of those . Goodbye To Language follows in the eye-searing , mind-spinning wake of Godard 's recent features , taking the fragmentation even further than in his Film Socialisme . [ VIDEO ESSAY ] `` Goodbye to Language '' is a vibrant think piece about modern man 's constant state of fear of the Frankenstein culture of violence that governments and corporations have created . Old dogs , similar tricks , but hardly tired . A hugely entertaining and almost entirely inscrutable lark , with a punk rock air of both surrender and rejuvenation . Adieu au langage , which ends with a dog 's bark and a child 's cries , is a masterpiece , a film attuned to a future that likely will not come to pass . Lots of luck figuring any of this out before dozing off . Even at a brisk 70 minutes , Goodbye to Language is dense with too many ideas and innovations to unpick on one viewing . 	As visually thrilling as it is inscrutable , Goodbye to Language 3D offers a late-period masterpiece from a legendary director still very much in control of his craft .
cars 2 How ****ing sad this movie is . Cars 2 is not only the weakest Pixar film to date , but it 's the first one that can be sadly dismissed as not particularly worth seeing . Cars 2 demonstrates that not every hit movie merits a sequel . heartless , convoluted , and boring Mediocre Pixar is still way better than what any other animation studios are doing . Not that Cars 2 is an actively bad animated film . It 's just sort of an average animated film . Globe-spanning sequel to Pixar 's 2006 automative adventure is a visual treat , but has less to offer mature viewers than the studio 's recent top-of-the-line models . Visuals look spectacular and action sequences take full advantage of the 3D format so you feel like you are burning rubber down winding roads at dizzying speed . A too long and repetitious sequel to the winning first film that is part Cars , part James Bond , part Transformers , and part Beverly Hillbillies . A tedious action caper that has only a handful of laughs and suffers from a dearth of storytelling magic . It 's shockingly un-Pixar-like . 	Cars 2 is as visually appealing as any other Pixar production , but all that dazzle ca n't disguise the rusty storytelling under the hood .
24 city The boom-and-bust cycle that afflicts company towns in capitalist countries also dogs the state-run cogmakers , as Chinese auteur Jia Zhang-ke lyrically depicts in 24 City , an ode to changing times . Zhangke never hints much about politics ... His is more the story of ordinary people caught up in history and still determined to live their lives as well as they can . It 's both relevant and resonant . 24 City is an intriguing blend of documentary and fiction that is intermittently both moving and informative , though it 's also slightly too long and drags a little around the halfway mark . Reflective historical documentary on ordinary Chinese workers . As far as nonfiction goes , you probably wo n't seen anything else this year so beautifully filmed . The result is surprisingly engrossing -- even lively , due in part to brief musical numbers inserted amid the interviews . 24 City includes evocative footage of Factory 420 's dismantling , but emphasizes people over place . The complexity of [ Zhangke 's ] postmodernist formal gambit nonetheless gets at something pressing . Celebrated filmmaker Jia Zhangke melds fiction and non-fiction filmmaking to portray the new betrayals in store for the Chinese as they shift to capitalism -- ones not very different from the old betrayals of a paternalistic society . With this moody and curiously effective follow-up to his critically acclaimed drama Still Life , director Jia Zhang-Ke paints another vivid portrait of China devastated by commercial 'progress . ' 	One of China 's most talented directors blurs the lines between non-fiction , drama , and musical theater in this vivid portrait of a country in cultural flux .
patch adams A perfectly fine , play-it-safe vehicle for Robin Williams that showcases both his great gift for improvisational comedy and his ability to make a heartfelt connection . The screenplay starts flying all over the place , as if the rubber band holding it in place snapped , and a courtroom scene at the end is an insult to the audience 's intelligence . Watching Patch Adams is like being bedridden and suffering the further indignity of a caregiver who is self-righteous and thinks he 's a comedian . Although the real-life Adams has shown great imagination as a doctor , the same ca n't be said for director Tom Shadyac and his producers . Williams pulls out all the stops in a lead role that gives him carte blanche to careen between extremes of silliness and sentimentality ; he tries too hard , too obviously , much like the pic itself . Here is the year 's least welcome technological advance , the computer-generated butterfly meant to provide a touch of magic for a film that has none of its own . It extracts tears individually by liposuction , without anesthesia ! A movie of depth and delight ! A sea of schmaltz that is even more insulting than it is nauseating . An overdose of sentimental claptrap , underscored by Marc Shaiman 's clichd string arrangements . 	Syrupy performances and directing make this dramedy all too obvious .
the number 23 Carrey is back with his funniest comedy in years . The bad news is that it 's supposed to be a psychological thriller . Greater than the terror that Jim Carrey 's character ... feels in the course of The Number 23 may have been that which Carrey and his castmates felt midway through production as the glowering awfulness of this project began to dawn on them . Though students of formulaic screenwriting may figure this mystery out long before Walter does , there wo n't be much satisfaction in it because it is totally preposterous . Here 's our homage to the film 's tortured permutations of the numerals 2 and 3 : 3 minus 2 equals 1 . And there is only one reason to see this movie : You have absolutely nothing better to do . Nothing to decipher here Having seen the movie , allow me to throw one additional calculation into the equation : The Number 23 is a zero . It can not abide ambiguity or abstraction , feels a desperate need to square all corners and turn over all stones -- it refuses to embrace the very supranormal scariness it wants us to consider ... Schumacher 's numerical nightmare is an anemic psychological thriller basking in contrivance ... woefully muddled and lacking ... the math does n't quite add up . The 23rd letter of the alphabet is W , without which there would be no waffles , Wal-Mart and , that final word on all things tiresome and pretentious : whatever . While bolstered by an intriguing premise , the thriller The Number 23 cops out for a slick , Hollywood-ized ending 	Jim Carrey has been sharp in a number of non-comedic roles , but this lurid , overheated , and self-serious potboiler is not one of them . The Number 23 is clumsy , unengaging , and mostly confusing .
american pie A surprisingly large amount of screen time devoted to the sickly sweet morality tales of the movie which would be fine on TV series ... but are way too frothy and take up too much time here . Weitz is a director with a terrifically silly script and not too much to say . Will undoubtably please its target audience of teens and early twenty-somethings , but may prove to be a bit too much for older audiences . Chris Klein is bound for stardom , with his clean cut good looks complimented by an open , unaffected screen presence ! Hilarious , affectionate . American Pie is both funny and foul , alternately frank and full of it . The entire cast deserves high marks . The four male leads are so engaging , and their exploits laced with such slices of real life , that anyone who has been there , done that wo n't be able to help but have twinges of real feeling for the fresh-faced lads . Adam Herz 's script is wildly uneven but occasionally quite funny . American Pie scores bonus points for its three-dimensional female characters . 	So embarrassing it 's believable , American Pie succeeds in bringing back the teen movie genre .
1212910-warrior It 's a movie with as much heart as violence , somewhat cliched and calculated but still an exhilarating screen experience . You would n't believe how good this movie is , and I would n't blame you . In Gavin O'Connor 's hands ... the few-holds-barred matches are certainly the main event : subtle characterization and deep back-story are not wanted on this two-fisted voyage of the Conlon family . Warrior is an epic , beautiful film , a must see ! O'Connor treats the brothers ' stories like two separate movies , but both are cliched , and we do n't learn enough about the rules of mixed martial arts to be drawn into the many , many bouts we see . Soap opera plot aside , ultimate fighting fans will eat this one up . As for the rest of us , it depends . All in all , though , Warrior wins on points , even with a resolution that did n't work for me . Boys working out their issues with their fists and feet is n't a particularly original metaphor , but Warrior makes some unexpected choices that allow the film to punch above its weight . One of the most emotionally involving sports movies ever ... surely as moving a film as possible to make about people beating the stuffing out of each other . Gavin O'Connor 's attempted something I ca n't honestly remember seeing before in a sports film , and he 's pulled it off in spectacular fashion , creating one of the year 's most rousing pieces of emotional entertainment as a result . Warrior is a man-weepie of the highest Hollywood order , a would-be Rocky for an empire in decline . 	Warrior relies on many of the clichs that critics of the genre love to mock -- and it transcends them with gripping action , powerful acting , and heart .
the attack 2012 demonstrates as a director the kind of elliptical reserve more commonly associated with Terrence Malick . The Attack turns into a listless verbal assault , batting easy back-and-forth arguments on fundamentalist dogma , bomber hero worship , the Occupation blues , etc. , that simply rehash the usual talking points . A gripping , personal examination of a seemingly unresolvable conflict . Though it 's never less than involving , it grows in stature as it unfolds and ends as a more subtle and disturbing film about love , loss and tragedy than we might initially expect . A sort of mystery in reverse , 'The Attack ' is both a character study and a love story . It 's also about terrorism and the driving forces behind catastrophic acts . As this film demonstrates in so many ways , the intractability of the Arab-Israeli political situation is , to put it mildly , not easily resolved , least of all onscreen . ... Ziad Doueiri has made the most extraordinary film on Middle Eastern suicide bombings yet by turning it into an investigative love story . Arouses profound questions about fanaticism , cultural identity , and the essential mystery of other people , even those we think we know best . [ An ] intelligent , involving movie that 's by turns a murder mystery and a politically charged argument about contemporary Palestinian identity . It 's a sorrowful film , as Amin finds some answers he does n't want to hear , and discovers that other answers are simply unknowable . 	Tense and suspenseful while remaining smart and understated , The Attack honors its complex subject with an intelligent script and captivating performances .
good shepherd Seems thoroughly conflicted about whether it actually buys what it 's selling . The film purports to tell the inside story of the first 20 years of the CIA , but Damon 's Bourne movies are more realistic spy stories . This expertly made film is fascinating and gripping . And it 's also so long that it feels like an entire TV series on DVD . If the lives of CIA spies are really this dreary , they may as well keep their secrets to themselves . ambitious , multilayered It turtles forward for 160 minutes with unrelenting , humorless solemnity , as if everyone involved were unaware that it has arrived three decades too late to matter . Damon 's slow realization of his family 's seemingly endless cycle of unhappiness is heartbreaking , even if we are way ahead of him . It 's almost impossible to buy Wilson as a pioneer who helped shape one of the world 's most intricate and devious intelligence agencies , leaving us to wonder how the CIA could ever have gotten off the ground through the labors of such an utter stiff . If you 're a skeptic who 's intrigued by government cover-ups and secret societies , let `` The Good Shepherd '' lead you into its web of deceit . Robert De Niro directs a near-epic-film of near-epic-length that nearly works . 	Though ambitious and confidently directed by Robert De Niro , The Good Shepherd is ultimately a tedious drama that holds few surprises and succumbs to self-seriousness .
frank millers sin city a dame to kill for Sin City : A Dame to Kill For is a jumbled but still enjoyable followup that , for most moviegoers , arrived on the scene too late . Rare indeed is the movie that features this many bared breasts , pummeled crotches and severed noggins and still leaves you checking your watch every 10 minutes . Unmistakably an exercise in style over substance . Every frame is some kind of digital marvel , yet the most impressive sights are old school : the blunt-instrument fearsomeness of Mickey Rourke 's Frankensteinian prosthetic face and the dangerous curves of femme fatale Eva Green 's often undraped body . Neither significantly better nor worse than its predecessor , the belated Sin City sequel is more of a repeat , rather than a continuation , of the original . While it might not feel as complete and well-rounded as the first movie , Sin City : A Dame To Kill For is a worthily prurient follow-up that offers up a whole bundle of new cinematic tricks , and a rogue 's gallery of exciting new characters . An unnecessary sequel that 's empty and arduous , little more than vignettes on vengeance and cruel parades of sociopathic power performed as gleefully ultraviolent shadowplays . Sin City is by no means a place you 'd wish to book a family holiday , but 102 minutes immersed in this melancholic world does just the trick . If you must see [ Sin City : A Dame to Kill For ] , save a few bucks and see it in 2D and buy yourself a snack with the savings . After the near-brilliance Robert Rodriguez achieved with 2005 's Sin City comes the sequel that has been promised for so long it crossed that line where people just stopped caring . And with good reason . 	A Dame to Kill For boasts the same stylish violence and striking visual palette as the original Sin City , but lacks its predecessor 's brutal impact .
office space As an update on eternal verities of life near the bottom rung of the corporate ladder , it 's both knowing and amusing . A mildly funny satire on contemporary office work in America . Brilliant ! Office Space feels cramped and underimagined . I think Judge is capable of making an inspired live-action comedy , but next time he 'll have to remember to do what he does in his animated ones -- keep the madness popping . It 's essentially a series of shorts linked together , but this does n't deny the movie 's deft examination of the insane minutia that plague contemporary workers . Observations on the modern office space are dead-on , and I dare you not to laugh out loud at a few of the sophomoric jokes ! at the end of the work day , this picture is an all out hoot -- go see it ! A take-this-job-and-shove-it movie about the crushing malevolence of the corporate environment , it 's on the verge of being really good . Frequently uproarious . Grasping and aimless ! 	Mike Judge lampoons the office grind with its inspired mix of sharp dialogue and witty one-liners .
fantastic four No disgrace , but it 's far from a classic either . Fantastic Four is actually very true to its source material - often literally so - but generally misses the spirit entirely . The key to the success of Marvel Comics adaptations is that even as the characters have fantastic powers , they remain ordinary people caught up in extraordinary circumstances . Fantastic Four is a movie that could have been a lot better - but it could also have been a lot worse . A garish mediocrity . Sometimes the Hollywood treatment can be a superhero 's greatest arch-nemesis . All-talk , no-action superhero flick is a dull , drab mess of shallow plots , dull characters and bland effects . Marked by nave storytelling , goofy but dumb tone , clumsy look , and cheesy special effects , the outdated Fantastic Four is worse than The Hulk , Elektra and Daredevil . Weighted down with a turgid story and utterly middling special effects , The Fantastic Four is n't likely to be Stan Lee 's favorite of the nearly dozen Marvel Comics adaptations either out already or on their way . Reducing a summer blockbuster to the scale of a primetime sitcom is novel , but it is n't admirable . 	Marred by goofy attempts at wit , subpar acting , and bland storytelling , Fantastic Four is a mediocre attempt to bring Marvel 's oldest hero team to the big screen .
moneyball Pitt 's grace under fire carries things along nicely , and there 's a fine supporting performance by Parks And Recreation 's Chris Pratt as uncertain first baseman Scott Hatteberg . Best scenes in this fresh , fact-inspired , charming feature are between Brad Pitt and Jonah Hill , who ( with justice ) should get his first Oscar nomination . No need to know baseball to enjoy this entertaining but not great ( it lacks cohesiveness ) film . Both a radical departure from the sports genre norm ... and an ultimate affirmation of the thrill of the game `` Moneyball '' is n't ultimately about baseball as much as it is an exploration of those who do and do n't adapt to change . You 'll laugh quite a bit at Moneyball , snickering at the absurdity of the situations and the often more ridiculous responses . What you might not do is care . Despite being a tale of the front office , it also works as a tale of the haves vs. the have-nots , and rarely panders to its audience , putting it in the higher eschelon of sports-underdog movies . Moneyball is more interesting than your typical sports drama thanks to the direction . Bennett Miller takes a rather grey , cement-enshrouded setting and gives it a little pizzazz . This is a subtle , elegant and altogether triumphant film about a subject I thought I was tired of , told with an artistry and freshness that is positively thrilling . Of course it 's a story of the little guys taking on the giants but it 's so much more . Even if you do n't like sports movies you 'd be hard pressed not to enjoy this one . What we 're left with is a sporadically entertaining mess . Moneyball is unsure about what ( if any ) risks it should take . 	Director Bennett Miller , along with Brad Pitt and Jonah Hill , take a niche subject and turn it into a sharp , funny , and touching portrait worthy of baseball lore .
caterina in the big city This is not another teen movie . It 's a sly political satire disguised as a deceptively light Italian coming-of-age flick . A warm and resonant comedy . A young woman comes of age with the insight that two politicians ostensibly on different sides can embrace each other because at base , they 're both insincere . The film uses its surprisingly sly humor to win over the audience and also manages to say quite a bit about the differences between the haves and have-nots of the world , yet without becoming too full of itself . An odd , and oddly dishonest bird . Despite its slightly overblown histrionics , Castellitto 's furious performance gives the film a welcome measure of righteous indignation . A truly wonderful coming-of-age tale , suffused with wit and warmth . A blend of gentle comedy and poignant drama . Teghil , with her soft , plain features and sad eyes , gives a sweet , honest , unaffected performance that brings Virzi 's themes to full bloom in the bosom of teenage anxiety ... [ Teghil 's ] sensitive work goes a long way toward overcoming the unfocused script , which , despite its incisive characterizations , never quite settles into a cohesive tone . 	This witty movie succeeds as both a modest teen coming-of-age story and a satirical microcosm of Italy 's political climate .
galaxy quest The big ideas fall short too often . Original , entertaining and very funny . Six hilariously-scripted parts , but they run out of laugh material long before the movie ends , and Galaxy Quest must then limp to the closing credits supported by its actual plot , which is stupider than anything Star Trek ever devised . Affectionate , often clever and unflaggingly funny ! A sparkling blend of sci-fi and comedy that affectionately spoofs every Star Trek clich known to man , Romulan , or Klingon . A Christmas present filled with impressive special effects and silly gags , which is far more entertaining than its packaging might have led anyone to believe . An affectionate , riotously funny parody that freely takes jabs at various elements of its subject but never seems mean-spirited or malintentioned . It may be a bit too violent for the very young moviegoers , but older children and parents may have a good time together watching some make-believe heroes transform themselves into the real McCoys . A frivolous but funny comedy with great special effects and admirable performances . This should become a lasting classic , even for people who do n't watch Star Trek , which it so cleverly spoofs . A Star Trek spoof with an intelligence that 's Vulcan and a wit that could make a Klingon grin . 	Intelligent and humorous satire with an excellent cast -- no previous Trekkie knowledge needed to enjoy this one .
seven The two actors misfire here : Freeman is so low-key he 's almost drowsy , and Pitt jumps around like a chihuahua to no effect . It does n't help that the sound mix is so murky that much of their dialogue sinks into the murk . The crime scenes are rendered in sickening detail , and the whole film has a murky , madly pretentious tone . Unfortunately , most of the scenes in Seven are unlikely , which means that by the end of the movie the duo is battling not just an insane killer but an off-the-wall screenwriter . Lean back , peer into the darkness , oh , and hold on to your popcorn and your date exceptionally tight when they get to 'sloth . ' Seven , a grisly social allegory drawn in blood and spawned in despair , casts a lingering , malodorous spell . Eventually , with its irrationally downbeat ending , Seven even drags the viewer down into the abyss . What Freeman brings to the movie is humanity at the heart of a nightmare . Positively dripping with a soggy , oppressive atmosphere , the film is blanketed with a miasma of madness . Although the story is n't original , it 's powerfully directed by David Fincher , and Morgan Freeman gives another of his superbly understated performances . Because the movie believes in its mission , the climax is likely to resonate in your head for hours , perhaps days after viewing . 	A brutal , relentlessly grimy shocker with taut performances , slick gore effects , and a haunting finale .
island Michael Bay 's stab at grafting his brand of high-octane mayhem onto an idea-driven sci-fi story gets off to a promising start before degenerating into endless car chases and stuff blowing up . The story splicing is n't any smoother than the movie 's own awkward bio-engineering , and by the film 's finale it 's hard to care much about any of it . Is Michael Bay the world 's worst living filmmaker ? Evidence continues to mount ... Pone el dedo en la llaga respecto a uno de los temas ms controvertidos de la ciencia actual y los grupos religiosos ms importantes : la actitud del hombre de jugar a ser Dios A sci-fi action picture ... that 's funny and fun . Veering from the `` Michael Bay is the Devil '' talking points , I got ta say I admire The Island for its ability to be smart , edgy , and entertaining at once . Bay , good job ! My bladder wants more for its suffering . The pace of this roller coaster ride becomes too furious to remember that it all started out as an adventure addressing some pertinent ethical issues about the pitfalls of stem cell research , cloning , and bio-genetics . A loud , steroidal adrenaline-pumper in which Bay proves yet again that when it comes to smashing , crashing and blowing things up real good , he has few equals . About half-way through The Island I realized what had happened : Director Michael Bay just plain went nuts behind the camera . 	A clone of THX 1183 , Coma , and Logan 's Run , The Island is another loud and bombastic Michael Bay movie where explosions and chases matter more than characters , dialogue , or plot .
mortal kombat Far too predictable to recommend to anyone not predisposed to this type of propulsive but vacant entertainment . This one 's a howler that 's so bad it 's almost good -- almost . The most intriguing is a glassy-eyed follower whose right hand shoots out a hissing reptile that can extend itself for miles . Exotic creatures like these make watching Mortal Kombat feel like being in a high-tech fun house . Cheesy with no nutrients . But hey , anything 's better than Street Fighter . In the realm of movies adapted from video games , `` Mortal Kombat '' sucks the least ... [ A ] surprisingly good movie . ... a one-note gimmick that comes with everything but a joystick for the viewer to control the robotic characters . The movie that most nearly approximates a video game : lots of action , no plot , eye-catching computer effects and a dollop of violence . The impressiveness of skill is lost in the technical production . Offers a visceral jolt of pleasure for those who formerly believed the martial arts movie genre belongs exclusively to Hong Kong 's John Woo . 	Despite an effective otherwordly atmosphere and appropriately cheesy visuals , Mortal Kombat suffers from its poorly constructed plot , laughable dialogue , and subpar acting .
easy-a While it does n't quite have the edge of something like Election it is the smartest and most enjoyable teen comedy since Juno . In what universe does a supposedly unremarkable 17 year old high school student gain the attention of her entire school by losing her virginity ? Emma Stone could make a four-hour reading of her high school yearbook entertaining ... She 's this generation 's next best hope for a lovable comic lead actress . This is n't just the sharpest high-school comedy in years , it 's also the funniest movie of any kind in 2010 so far . Such an unconventionally smart , funny and delightful teen comedy that it 's like a breath of fresh air . It 's this year 's Mean Girls . Entertaining with moments of charm mostly due to its great supporting cast , Easy A tries terribly hard , but never captures the savvy or cool of John Hughes ' or Cameron Crowe 's teen comedy opuses . Not to the level of a John Hughes film but entertaining none the less ; but only sporadically funny . Olive is a kind of modern day Ferris Bueller . She has it pretty close to all figured out , and she even gets her own big , gratuitous musical number . It 's a terrifically deadpan , lively performance from Stone . It 's a dire , poorly directed , pretentious attempt to put a Gen Y spin on The Scarlet Letter made all the worse by the casting of Stone whose character is supposed to be unpopular , despite the obvious fact that she is gorgeous . ... smart , genre-aware satire of high school comedies and of the suburban high school experience in general . 	It owes a huge debt to older ( and better ) teen comedies , but Easy A proves a smart , witty showcase for its irresistibly charming star , Emma Stone .
eureka 2001 Koji Yakusho grounds the film with his emotional truth Events and characters point in familiar directions , but Eureka is rarely familiar . It 's not for the popcorn crowd , but it does reward the mature , patient viewer . Not always dramatically satisfying but fascinating and mesmerizing to watch . This is a film to visually savor . Succeeds in involving its targeted audience in a thoughtful meditation on life . A meditation on death played out in crisp , sepia-toned images of such evocative power that they linger for days after seeing the film . In the end we feel as if we 've truly become friends , accomplices , and fellow passengers with the characters in Aoyama 's masterfully constructed tale . Its vision is unique and harrowing , its song hits to the heart . It demands attention , and indeed strikes a blow for the classical Japanese film . 	With its subtitles and a running time nearing four hours , Eureka certainly places demands upon its viewers . For those with the patience , however , this visually lovely film builds to an emotionally resonant vision of transcendence .
mr and mrs smith Somewhere among the impossibly athletic gunplay and impossibly witty sparring by two impossibly attractive leads is a sly , incisive metaphor for the modern American marriage . Part of the problem is the script 's constant seesaw between sincerity and glibness . Pitt and Jolie make sexy sparring partners , but they ca n't lift this leaden material . Nobody can wear a skintight leather dominatrix outfit while wielding a pistol with more authority than Jolie Admittedly , Mr. & Mrs. Smith operates on a one-joke premise . But - in a departure from a lot of what Hollywood has delivered so far this year -- at least the joke is funny . A braver movie would have seen the couple 's standoff through to its logical conclusion -- the eventual insistence on happily ever after seems more than a little weaselly . A one-joke movie . Chemistry is n't enough to keep the lethal pyrotechnics going for close to two hours . ... the film comes off as nothing less than a huge disappointment . Pitt and Jolie have chemistry to burn , and the film hits more often than it misses . 	Although this action-romance suffers from weak writing and one too many explosions , the chemistry generated by onscreen couple Pitt and Jolie is palpable enough to make this a thoroughly enjoyable summer action flick .
the lunchbox Like a lot of movies , but especially foreign films , `` The Lunchbox '' has a central idea and winning characters , and it builds a compelling situation . The quality of the story and [ Ritesh ] Batra 's deft skill at telling that story makes this a special film . A clever setup that harkens back to `` You 've Got Mail '' and `` The Shop Around the Corner '' does n't quite pay off in India 's warm-hearted comedy-drama `` The Lunchbox . '' Seek out this beautifully made and acted little gem of a movie . You will not regret it , and I think I 've just found one more 2014 release that will be on my Ten Best list . A Romantic 's Delight . This long-distance love story is comfort food in any language , perfectly agreeable and unlikely to surprise . One of those films that gives words like `` tender '' and `` touching '' a good name . You would need to be some sort of monster to resist its charms . A minor classic that remembers it 's not sizzling sex scenes that make movie love stories work , it 's the longing . This gentle romantic drama , by the Indian director Ritesh Batra , packs twenty minutes of action into its hour-and-three-quarters running time . If co-writer and director Ritesh Batra occasionally takes his sweet time getting from point A to point B , it 's equally true that he gives the audience a nice , comfortable ride . 	Warm , affectionate , and sweet but not cloying , The Lunchbox is a clever crowd-pleaser from first-time director Ritesh Batra .
john wick The universe that that 's set up is an intriguing one . The mission that Wick embarks on a compelling one . And in terms of action , drama and excitement , the film truly delivers . Reeves serves up a emphatic reminder of his action hero credentials with a charismatic and acrobatic performance . Is it necessary ? No . Is it fun ? Hell yeah . This is the most entertaining Keanu Reeves action vehicle since THE MATRIX . JOHN WICK is a wild and bloody ride that hardly lets up until the final frame . Relentlessly violent and fierce , it revolves around revenge , retribution and redemption . The film is thematically thin , and it has a tendency to embrace the action genre 's more obnoxious elements , but there 's a proudly no-nonsense air to its nonsensicality . Do n't bother with this baloney . Watch a good Korean movie like `` I Saw the Devil '' to see how a revenge movie is done right . John Wick is a rousing action thriller of the sort rarely encountered in theaters these days . Co-directors David Leitch and Chad Stahelski , who both come from a stunt background , keep the action relentless , although it builds to a kind of monotony in the latter stages . `` John Wick '' is all about the action , a beautifully choreographed ballet of bullets , knives and deadly punches . It 's also a triumphant return to the action genre for Keanu Reeves . 	Stylish , thrilling , and giddily kinetic , John Wick serves as a satisfying return to action for Keanu Reeves -- and what looks like it could be the first of a franchise .
kumiko the treasure hunter Beautifully acted , smartly written , skillfully directed , and gorgeously photographed It 's wonderful A work of rigorously disciplined eccentricity , Kumiko , the Treasure Hunter is at once entirely accessible and yet appealing only to a rarified crowd ready to key into its narrow-bandwidth sense of humor . In the title role , Kikuchi is impressive , easily handling Kumiko 's comic and more somber sides and never allowing us to settle into a single or simple interpretation of the character . If you 're in the mood for something different , you 're in luck : `` Kumiko , the Treasure Hunter '' takes elements of the traditional quest story into completely new places . Basically an interesting failure . The filmmaking team of David and Nathan Zellner ... have channeled Kumiko 's visionary madness into a memorable , haunting and highly original American movie . With the gorgeously shot , sweetly paced Kumiko , The Treasure Hunter , David and Nathan Zellner make a strange , funny , sometimes alarmingly deadpan leap forward from their likable earlier features . It 's hard to think of a film that ties itself so closely to another cinematic text while still retaining such an original tone . An endearing unlikely heroine in an utterly charming escapade . 	Powerfully acted and lovely to look at , Kumiko , the Treasure Hunter offers a treat for cinephiles with a taste for the pleasantly peculiar .
1097046-dinosaur I enjoyed the movie as sheer visual spectacle The story does n't matter much when a movie looks this good , and it 's a breakthrough of technical achievement . It would n't have hurt to spend some of that money to tell a story as original as the movie 's design -- though I 'm sure I speak for millions in thanking Disney for not including any stupid songs . If the devil is in the details , then this is one devilishly delightful film . Well , Bambi meets Godzilla again in the new computer-cartoon epic Dinosaur , but the results are n't so witty . Directors Ralph Zondag and Eric Leighton deserve high praise for their innovative blend of filmed settings and CGI wizardry . The story is from familiar fairy-tale turf in the ways of good vs. evil , and every bit of it is thrilling to look at . Dinosaurio no ser un clsico pero bien vale la pena verla . A final de cuentas , ver es creer If studios are going to be paying out hundreds of millions of dollars for these films , should n't some of that money go to writers whose imaginations match the visuals ? Will leave audiences of all ages awestruck . 	While Dinosaur 's plot is generic and dull , its stunning computer animation and detailed backgrounds are enough to make it worth a look .
1149496-1149496-red eye Poderia ser um bom filme produzido para a tev . Como esforo para Cinema , no entanto , apenas mediano . Damn entertaining and - even better - at just 85 minutes , it 's refreshingly economical . With their riveting performances in 'Red Eye , ' Cillian Murphy and Rachel McAdams are on the way to A-list movie stardom . Leave it to director Wes Craven ... Red Eye is a nail biting , edge of your seat experience , and he does it all in under 90 minutes . It took forever , but the best thriller of summer 2005 has finally arrived . The gripping , seat- clutching suspense in this baby will pin you to your seat . Red Eye packs all the tension of a turbulent flight but ends with the equivalent of a stale sack of pretzels This nifty , tense thriller directed by Wes Craven brings together a classic setup and a relevant-sounding if thoroughly undercooked story involving worldwide terrorism . 'Red Eye ' is a movie that flies for a while , but is finally grounded by its heavy cargo of unbelievability . The movie works best when the action is confined to two people on the plane , because it is n't able to resort to silly action . Cillian Murphy is excellent at being menacing . A good measure of the movie 's white-knuckle fun comes from Craven 's old-hand familiarity with the way thrillers tick , predicated on the smallest and most banal of missed connections , the kind that get an audience to go crazy . 	With solid performances and tight direction from Wes Craven , Red Eye is a brisk , economic thriller .
lake house Let 's get the negative stuff out of the way first . This plot is shot full of holes . Nearly all time-travel movies are shot full of holes , and this one is especially spongy . It may have a nice view , but this is one house with a decidedly shoddy foundation . If you 're not sucked in by the romance of the story , there 's a chance you 'll find it laughably awful , thanks to poorly written lines and Keanu 's delivery of the world 's least convincing sneeze . Even with a low-wattage pair like Keanu Reeves and Sandra Bullock , the concept is too touching to deny . It could be a good idea , but the fantasy is leaden and refuses to play by the rules it itself set up . So it is not very good as a fantasy and it really does not work as a romance . The sort of dopey movie best appreciated while wearing pajamas . This is really a strange premise for a movie . I did n't say bad , I simply meant odd , and at times , confusing . The joy lies in getting there , with lush visual direction by Alejandro Agresti and appealing performances by Ms. Bullock and her old Speed co-star Keanu Reeves . The time-warp romantic fantasy The Lake House is a puzzle that is maddeningly obtuse , emotionally overstretched and virtually absent a sense of interior logic . Dear Keanu and Sandra : Speed is more your speed 	The plot of The Lake House is a little too convoluted , and the film fails to pull off the sweeping romance it aims for .
limitless Director Neil Burger flaunts flair , with bursts of stylised Escher-esque camerawork ( dig those speeding super-zooms ) , saturated colour and a euphoric soundtrack . Gripping thriller about the heady and nightmarish journey of a struggling writer who becomes a kind of tortured ber-mensch after he takes an unapproved wonder drug , starring Bradley Cooper in a breakthrough performance . A strangely arid experience , without the gleeful , drugged-out weirdness of a truly offbeat endeavor . The hallucinatory movie gets credit for bringing up the issue of untapped human potential . The movie 's `` what if '' wish-fulfillment fantasy theme ultimately falters , runs out of steam and breaks down with an ending that is well beyond belief . Limitless is the sort of B-movie Roger Corman would make 50 years ago , riffing on a studio smash like Inception without the lofty budget or ideas . Limitless brings the seduction of self-enhancement to your local cineplex in a witty package that 's pretty enough to keep you intrigued Bored ? Lack of wish-fulfilment in your life ? Take Limitless for quick , over-the-counter relief . `` Limitless '' is the perfect way to kick of Spring with a highly addictive motion picture that has you wondering would you try NZT ? it is just one big drug itself that when taken emboldens you with the power to see that Bradley Cooper should not be headlining a film , Leslie Dixon should not be writing it and Neil Burger must never be allowed to helm a major motion picture again . The plot is utter tosh but executed with such flamboyant style that you might think it was Shakespeare . Or not . 	Although its script is uneven , Neil Burger directs Limitless with plenty of visual panache , and Bradley Cooper makes for a charismatic star .
going clear scientology and the prison of belief 2015 It does n't add a lot to what was known about the church , but it puts it all in a compact format that hits Scientology squarely in the thetans . Whether you find this film revelatory , vindicating or provocative will rather depend on your preconceptions about Scientology -- or about religions in general . In any case , it 's pretty gripping . In which the world 's most dauntless documentary-maker takes on the world 's most litigious religion ( we 'd call it a cult but we do n't want to get sued ) . Consider `` Going Clear '' an audit for the former leaders and most prominent members of the Church of Scientology , now willing to come forward and allege abuse , intimidation , and brainwashing . By focusing on the powerful and damning stories of the church 's most destructive practices , including the forced `` disconnection '' of members from family and friends , Gibney has made a forceful and memorable case . Whatever my misgivings about the movie , it 's brought this stuff to the forefront , and paved the way for the sort of pushback against Scientology 's tactics that may not have been possible just a few years ago . By the time you finish watching Going Clear , you 'll be left `` clear '' and hungry for justice . These stories , coupled with the church 's history of attacking critics and its criminal activity in securing its tax-free status , make for a hair-raising , but all too credible , expos . While he does n't really uncover much that 's new in `` Going Clear , '' the way he 's collected and assembled testimonials , documents and archival footage creates a cumulative effect that 's chilling . Alex Gibney shakes the Scientology tree in his crackling film version of Lawrence Wright 's nonfiction bestseller . 	Thoroughly disquieting but impossible to ignore , Going Clear : Scientology and the Prison of Belief is a searing investigative work from a master documentarian .
first descent [ A ] sometimes thrilling extreme-sports doc . It 's a good reminder why going to the local bijou is sometimes better than renting a video or DVD . Though I admire the athletes , the film failed to capture my interest in them or the sport . you get to see crazy people do stupid stuff you have to be very very very drunk to try There 's probably a good snowboarding movie coming some day . This is n't it . At its best , fairly often , the movie rises above hammy devices . Adrenaline rules , dude . If only the movie would give the audience more of it . A sweet primer , not only into the history of snowboarding , but into the minds and lifestyles of some of the key participants in the sport . Woah . Gnarly . How many times do you hear anyone say that any more ? Here 's a movie for those who ca n't get enough of snowboarding , documentaries about sports , or people whose vocabularies include `` gnarly . '' Because `` First Descent '' contains all three . This is good fun and exciting material hosted by a number of engaging personalities ( whose ages range from 17 to 40 ) who have all achieved the central dream of humankind : making a living on their own terms doing a thing that they love . 	This snowboarding doc scores with its dazzling array of snowboarding stunts and beautiful scenery , but loses points with shameless product placement and an overlong runtime .
tenacious d in the pick of destiny May just win over the rockers of old and new ... ... low-wattage power slide down a yellow-brick road of thrash cliches , stoner skits and music-video parodies JB and KG are overweight hetero life-partners in rock , despite the fact that they fit none of the typical rock star stereotypes . The script , written by Black , Gass and director Liam Lynch , packs in gag after gag ( and cameo after cameo ) , but there 's not enough dramatic impetus to keep it from becoming a drag . Even considering Black 's prodigious talents , Pick gets tiresome way too quickly . Some of the bits work ; just as often , they do n't . Black and Gass ' appealing rapport masks those problems for a while , but eventually , they , too , wear out their welcome . If thou wouldst rock tonight , thou couldst rock mightily tonight at Tenacious D in the Pick of Destiny . Manages to hold our attention for an entire 97 minutes , a feat that even metal bands with real Marshall amps are hard-pressed to accomplish . If you got a buzz from Beavis & Butthead and Bill & Ted , Dumb and Dumber and Spinal Tap , you 'll probably get a bunch of chuckles out of Tenacious D : The Pick of Destiny . Black thrives in these grubby environs . His full-throttle bodily chaos makes more sense in movies done on the cheap than in blockbusters and polished comedies . 	Tenacious D fan will find this movie hilarious ; everybody else will see only a low-brow concept movie and a small assembly of jokes stretched past the 100 minute mark .
jackass number 2 There 's no denying the ingenuity it takes to design this stuff . Who else besides Knoxville would think to wrestle a boa inside a kids ' ball pit ? ... it 's ultimately impossible to deny the comedic value of such interludes . ... a film that aims for the lowest-common denominator and falls even shorter . The first half hour was hilarious . The second half hour got repetitious and tedious . If you 're expecting anything other than morons being morons , then you 're the jackass . more absurd and grotesque than we 've seen before , as if everything prior was merely child 's play . The only thing that might be considered amusing in the entire film are scenes in which the irksome Bam Margera finally gets some comeuppance . [ A ] sporadically hilarious assortment of weapons-grade idiocy . There are worse things to be found in the slimiest corners of the Internet , but this second film installment of the MTV series brings the lowest excesses of webcam exhibitionism to the mutiplex . Jackass : Number Two is a lot like the first Jackass , but with Oscar winners . 	Better than any sequel to a movie of a television show has a right to be , Jackass : Number Two dares you not to laugh .
ghost dog the way of the samurai Deeply hypnotic as well as entertaining . ... I was lulled by the relaxed storytelling . Drily funny . This is the sort of film that every adult synapse in your head knows is hipster poppycock , escapism to nothing . Stark , dark , dramatic and DEEP . A handsomely shot , cool-sounding head-scratcher of a film that probably is n't worth the wear on the fingernails . Visually creative film with a remarkable use of color and music . This is a picture by turns amusing and melancholic , sweet-centred and dark-edged . compellingly strange twist on the mafia genre Jarmusch , with his noble sincerity and real affection , ca n't begin to give this grisly , somnambulant essay on the cross-cultural matrix of violence born of over-stimulation and numbness a life of its own . 	An innovative blend of samurai and gangster lifestyles .
monsterinlaw The stakes seem so petty and the tactics so unimaginative that it has no more appeal than stale wedding cake . As comebacks go , Monster-in-Law may do for Fonda what the Empire State Building did for King Kong . In a movie about diva-to-diva warfare , each diva is miscast . Granted , Monster-in-Law is meant to be a laugh-fest , but it stoops very low and is too unkind to its actors in its pursuit of laughs . For a romantic comedy , it 's neither romantic nor funny . Monster-In-Law is an outrageous , slapstick , over-the-top comedy that had me laughing throughout . Maybe 35 years from now Jane Fonda will apologize for this picture , too . A kind of Meet the Fockers-lite , with bitchy scheming substituted for flushing toilets . While there are moments of hilarious nastiness , the film continually opts to play it safe . The intentionally over-the-top , at times cheerfully wicked , streak is greatly harmed by a cop-out conclusion that pushes the tone toward falsely uplifting mawkishness . 	While Jane Fonda steals the movie in her return to the screen , a tired script and flimsy performances make this borderline comedy fall flat .
left behind the movie The almost total absence of anything that actually looks like a narrative is one of Left Behind 's issues , but it 's not , honestly , one of the biggest . Unless you are well versed in that particular interpretation of the Book of Revelation , you 'll just be scratching your head . Whatever the central message , the movie 's still a blundering cringefest , thanks to unintentionally laughable dialogue , hackneyed writing and uninspired direction . Turns Biblical scripture into boneheaded action-adventure with only the slightest lip service paid to serious issues of faith . Atuaes ridculas em um filme absurdo . So awful that even true believers will have difficulty staying awake . A classic case of preaching to the converted , this relentlessly boring movie is unlikely to appeal to anyone except hard-core fans of Christian sci-fi . The only thing `` Left Behind '' made me want to do was pray that it would soon be over . Solid , unexceptional mix of thrills and human drama . Whoa . 	Poor production values , slow pacing , and an implausible story makes Left Behind a movie only for the faithful .
shaun of the dead [ T ] the inevitable switch to romance taints the irony that came before like backwash . It 's a knowing look at a perennial pop-movie genre and an ingenious variation on the romantic-comedy theme featuring an appealing and talented cast . ... a film in which all the sad compromises of adulthood are symbolized by a pressing need to lop off your undead neighbor 's rotting head with a cricket bat . Nicely done . I love George Romero 's zombie pictures , and I love deadpan English humor , but I had no idea that the two would mesh as happily as they ( mostly ) do in Shaun of the Dead . Shaun of the Dead aims for the head and the funny bone , and scores a major hit with both . The movie 's great joke never wears out its welcome : Many of the living are virtually indistinguishable from the undead . Even when in danger of self-destructing , it cadges laughs with smart lines , silly observations or blokish inside jokes about zombie movies , video games and pub nibbles . Laudable inventiveness and satirical daggers that stick it to the aimless , video game addicted slacker generation . Shaun of the Dead stands up as a horror movie as well as a comedy . It 's exuberantly , consistently funny . 	Shaun of the Dead cleverly balances scares and witty satire , making for a bloody good zombie movie with loads of wit .
analyze this Ramis has made a fleet , unself-conscious , eminently enjoyable picture , where one-liners carom merrily like stray bullets , and where there 's casual ease , like the drape of a sharpster 's trousers , in the rapport between its two stars . Harold Ramis ' Analyze This is the mob parody Billy Wilder or Preston Sturges might have made if they 'd had access to Robert De Niro and the F-word . De Niro and Crystal are a crackerjack pairing , and their interplay is loony enough to make you forgive the movie being stuck in neutral most of the time . A decent comedy , but it was capable of being much more . A witty , upbeat comedy that is more concerned with making its audience laugh than any other of its cinematic virtues ( or lack thereof ) . Director Harold Ramis keeps the gangsters real and funny at the same time . ... a movie so sluggish and corny , not even a script written by Shakespeare could have saved it . Slow , uneven and only intermittently humorous . Genuinely funny ! This comedy with the deceptively glib premise is actually surprisingly funny , thanks to a chuckle-worthy performance by Robert De Niro . 	Analyze This is a satisfying comedy with great performances by De Niro and Crystal .
shanghai noon Expertly mixes thrills and laughter . A tasty matinee snack . Dey ultimately lets Chan down . If the legendary actor could have brought in old school chum Sammo Hung , he could have made this a great picture . The chemistry between Wilson , who plays a sort of poor man 's Sundance Kid , and Chan is infectious , feels genuine and consistently pays big comic dividends . First time director Tom Dey 's movie looks pretty good is relatively well put together , but storywise , it just wanders aimlessly through various Western clichs . [ Chan ] 's not only a great martial artist but he 's a hell of an actor too . Dey 's pedestrian direction threatens to drain the fun from even the good stuff , by finding the least interesting way to shoot nearly every scene . Though the film nakedly seeks a wide audience through conventional plotting and characterizationand despite being ( like most action movies ) guy-centricShanghai Noon provides good , clean `` family '' fun . [ Blu-ray ] Much of its strength comes from the central clash between Jackie 's indomitable energy and Wilson 's knowingly anachronistic cool , while lots of visual and verbal gags keep things whistling . It makes the most of Chan 's talents , a martial artist who infuses all of his films with charm and good humor . 	Although the plot is really nothing to brag about , Jackie Chan and Owen Wilson work well together . The cinematography looks great , and Jackie delivers a hilarious performance . This is an old-fashioned crowd-pleaser .
blue ruin The world does n't need another empty genre exercise . But as Blue Ruin reminds us , it can always use more filmmakers of Saulnier 's resourcefulness , sensitivity and quiet assurance . ... an impressively spare thriller ... Odd revenge genre low-budgeter keeps the tradition of revenge killing all too alive . Blue Ruin redefines the revenge picture . It continually creates moments of hold-your-breath suspense . As an action film - which , in small bursts , it is - Blue Ruin is disquieting and raw , like Commando turned inside out . It gets uglier . And as it does , the lessons become more apparent to you , if not to Dwight . A quiet , confident , and surprisingly excellent revenge thriller . The killings multiply . But so do the moments of kooky cinematic grace . Saulnier works intelligent and engrossing variations on the revenge thriller . It 's a brilliant , slow-burning American revenge thriller that hardly puts a foot wrong , a work of startling violence and profound conscience that announces the arrival of an exciting young director . 	Smart , stripped-down , and thrillingly grim , Blue Ruin proves that a well-told revenge story can still leave its audience on the edge of their seat .
chicken run A delightfully clever feature . mostly good , lighthearted entertainment with more than its share of bad chicken puns While the average chicken may hold as much interest to you as a dead duck , this film 's chickens are well-defined characters that make you laugh , feel worry for them , and then laugh even more . Julia Sawalha gives Ginger a brave , smart , you-go-hen ! attitude . The sophisticated humor of Peter Lord and Nick Park 's very funny comedy is more likely to strike a nerve with adults . May not maintain quite the same frantic level of invention as the Wallace and Gromit shorts , but it has more heart . This first feature by Nick Park and Peter Lord , the team that brought you Wallace and Gromit , is a diabolically witty piece of work , a haymaker . Most of the time Chicken Run entertains , instructs , involves and enchants . It is not only an amazing technical accomplishment , it 's also the wittiest and best-voiced animated movie to come along in years . And although the pace is uneven and the plot seems stretched thin , Chicken Run is still worth a look 	Chicken Run has all the charm of Nick Park 's Wallace & Gromit , and something for everybody . The voice acting is fabulous , the slapstick is brilliant , and the action sequences are spectacular .
empire records [ Leaves the ] impression of artificiality . Leaves you with the sensation of having chewed a piece of bubblegum until well after its flavour ran dry . One of the hippest and most enjoyable movies of the 90s . This ROCKS ! Overall , fatally ersatz but good natured at heart . ... things just move quickly from one person 's conflicts to another , with little momentum or feeling of satisfaction . It has a good soundtrack , lots of free-for-all dance scenes , and derision toward aging singers and capitalists . And you just ca n't get enough of that . A soundtrack in search of a movie , Empire Records is one teen-music effort that never finds a groove . If the movie is a lost cause , it may at least showcase actors who have better things ahead of them . The Empire Strikes Out . . . lame Gen-X `` comedy '' that falls completely flat . . . Go rent CLERKS Lovably sloppy . 	Despite a terrific soundtrack and a strong early performance from Renee Zellweger , Empire Records is mostly a silly and predictable teen dramedy .
a brilliant young mind Hardly breaks new ground , but it 's a watchable entry in the tortured young genius genre . A genre-fusing film in which our hero comes of age and battles the relationship symptoms autism , X + Y is both touching and tough A charming , utterly lovely and brilliantly acted coming-of-ager . [ A ] deeply affecting , sensitively handled British drama . X+Y probably equals small returns at the box office . But who cares when it has the ability to multiply one 's happiness tenfold ? The film 's magic is how it slips the skin of sappy and mendacious formula , stepping away from clich scene by scene , and in quietly revelatory ways . Long after you 've seen the film , you 'll remember the wonderfully nuanced work of the cast , particularly Ms. Hawkins . A Brilliant Young Mind is an inoffensive film , looking to please a broad audience and while it achieves its goals , there 's always a sense that it could have done more ... An attractively unparochial drama with a bracing interest in excellence . Affecting drama about math whiz tackles loss , special needs . 	A Brilliant Young Mind is tender and perceptive -- and intelligent enough to find a wealth of dramatic riches buried under well-trod narrative ground .
wilbur wants to kill himself supported by three stellar performances , Wilbur outshines its flaws and becomes something pretty special Gloomy and gritty , without forsaking an ounce of realism . A very good , offbeat movie with a very bad , offbeat title . You may laugh , but you wo n't always like yourself for it . This vivid examination of brotherly love and its consequences never stints on the complexities of the heart or the fascinating ambiguities of life . Wilbur Wants to Kill Himself is a bittersweet Danish film that demonstrates that those who nurture others are the most beautiful souls in the world . Although at times too low-key , Wilbur is a humorous and strangely uplifting film about death and dying . These are characters who are quite worth spending a few hours with . More plainly dreary than morosely captivating ... a movie that seems rather irresolute about exactly what sort of feelings it 's hypothetically meant to be conjuring up . If we never do find out exactly why Wilbur is so intent on offing himself , it almost does n't matter , given Sives ' magnetic , star-making performance and the careful , elating mixture of comedy and pathos . 	Despite its morbid subject matter , Wilbur is a charming and often funny film .
girl who played with fire This is no-nonsense , let's-get-to-it business , and will probably be less satisfying , and less clear , to viewers unfamiliar with the source material . Lisbeth Salander remains the riveting centerpiece of the two films that follow on from Dragon Tattoo , but , alas , her continuing story has been winnowed down in a way that makes it -- and her -- feel smaller than before . The already fragile bond between the two leads gains an added layer of intrigue here because it plays out at a distance . Trims book 's absorbing plot down to the essentials of a complicated crime mystery and answers questions about that girl , but is not as visually exciting as the first film . An enthralling sequel is a mesmerizing tapestry that includes murder , missing persons , corruption , sexual perversions and dark secrets . Two-thirds of the way through , The Millennium Trilogy is looking like the North American cinematic event of 2010 . ... the first picture 's ferocity remains intact here , as do its fetishes regarding political corruption , sexual violence and the riveting [ Noomi ] Rapace ... Infused with the same sense of fiery danger and provocative intrigue that made 'The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo ' so much fun to watch . Lisbeth and her vendetta against Men Who Hate Women continue in the more digestible sequel The Girl Who Played With Fire . There is some satisfaction to be had in a step-by-step mystery being competently executed -- but such plots are so cheap that they 've mostly been demoted from the big screen to episodic television . 	Noomi Rapace and Michael Nyqvist remain extraordinarily well-suited to their roles , but the second installment in Stieg Larsson 's Millennium Trilogy does n't pack quite as much punch as the first .
the internets own boy the story of aaron swartz At the time of the untimely suicide of twenty-six-year-old internet savant Aaron Swartz , I was blindsided by the loss , and on that day I compiled everything I could find in a blog entry . A potent , frightening and poignant reminder of how easy it is to lose democracy in modern day America . If this were 1930s Germany , DOJ prosecutors Carmen Ortiz and Stephen Heymann would probably work for Adolf Hitler . Knappenberger 's documentary is smart and focused , homing in on a recurring theme of independence . [ Knappenberger ] present [ the factual complexities of Swartz 's case ] in sterling clarity , and without condescending to a less informed audience For balance , it could have done with more material from the people who put such extraordinary effort into prosecuting Swartz , but that is n't for want of trying : many declined to contribute . Knappenberger 's film is a heavy watch , mostly using talking heads and footage of Swartz before his death to to tell a story which comes to question the state of civil liberties in the US . It is n't great cinema , but it 's capable and gripping advocacy filmmaking that took less than a year , start to finish , and will introduce a much wider audience to the issues behind the life and death of Aaron Swartz . The documentary 's release as the net neutrality debate rages will only underscore what we have lost . The emotional connections Knappenberger makes are extraordinary . And the depth of your involvement in Swartz 's story is even greater . A spellbinding portrait of the Internet whiz kid 's life and political convictions , which were cut short by his suicide in early 2013 . 	Informative and enraging in equal measure , The Internet 's Own Boy : The Story of Aaron Swartz uses its subject 's tragic tale to deliver an impassioned call to action .
fun with dick and jane Like a piece of rancid gorgonzola cheese , this oozed its way into theaters as part of the holiday festivities ( I guess Columbia Pictures was out of lumps of coal ) . Instead of being a satire of the boom-time keeping up with the Joneses , it morphs into more of a `` consumption is king '' reaffirmation of that dangerous attitude ... would be funnier if it had n't hurt so many people . The film 's overall frantic tone ca n't disguise the fact that the picture offers little delivery for all its buildup . Everyone involved with this production must have known there was a good movie somewhere , but no one 's been quite able to find it . The material is so inherently loaded , the glib portrait is too glaring . Carrey , in particular , seems to be working overtime in an effort to elicit laughs from some decidedly underwhelming material . Slumming with Jim and Tea . A sharp , funny shot at people taking their luxe life too seriously . Fun with Dick and Jane produces a handful of big laughs - big enough to make it worth a recommendation . Most of it plays out as sub-medium-grade farce , but Carrey has some funny calisthenic bits where he appears to have the pliability of a rubber toy . A flattened jumble . 	This muddled comedy has a few laughs , but never sustains a consistent tone .
space cowboys the enjoyment is in watching old pros Eastwood , Jones , Garner , and Sutherland chew the fat and play off each other Some of the bits are funny ... but after a while it gets kind of old . There is much potential with the cast . There 's an abundance of charm and screen presence from the four veteran actors . It 's marvelously entertaining . Space Cowboys never achieves liftoff . An enjoyable , if not totally absorbing , summer action movie that provides a welcome vacation from the tyranny of youth . The film has been attractively packaged , and if -- like many fans -- you 'd pay to watch Clint read a menu , then you 'll find Space Cowboys an enjoyable time warp back to the summer of '98 . Overall , the movie is good enough to warrant a looksie . The most appealing thing the squinty-eyed director has made since 1992 's Unforgiven . 	While the plot is overly cliched , the suberb acting by the stars ( especially the tense interactions between Clint Eastwood and Tommy Lee Jones ) and the spectacular special effects make this a movie worth seeing .
minority report Spielberg is like a father who tells his kids scary bedtime stories but ca n't bear it if they have nightmares . a thinking person 's action flick that grips you on the basic popcorn level but also leaves you with something to think about in the end he first two-thirds of Minority Reportare such a good time that what happens at film 's end does n't quite obliterate it . The film 's futuristic vision is dazzling yet remains unnervingly dark , wowing the eyes whilst challenging the mind . Spielberg remains under Stanley Kubrick 's directorial spell , but Report has almost none of the mawkishness that crippled the last fourth of A.I . This masterfully sleek vision of the future from director Steven Spielberg is an awesome mix of skewed science fiction , twisty Hitchcock-style thrills , stunning blue-grey tinged photography and outstanding design . Smart , ambitious , fast and fascinating , Minority Report is a movie to restore your faith in Hollywood . One of the few films I 've seen so far this year that I would recommend and it is one to see on the big screen . Impactante , espectacular e inteligente . Sentencia Previa es la mejor pelcula en lo que va del ao . Un nuevo clsico del gnero . The ideal marriage of bravura storytelling , rip-roaring action , dazzling visuals , moody atmosphere , masterful effects , and evocative social and philosophical implications . 	Thought-provoking and visceral , Steven Spielberg successfully combines high concept ideas and high octane action in this fast and febrile sci-fi thriller .
beach A complete escape package ? Not even close . Well paced , acted and filmed , always interesting , with only a few sticky moments and rough end . As many spiritual teachers have warned : if you do not want pain , do n't only seek pleasure . Less -than- gripping . While movie fans who prefer straightforward thrillers will be disappointed , those who are willing to sort through something less tidy are going to find The Beach an intriguing , if uneven exploration of the dark side of paradise . It will likely appeal to moviegoers more interested in scenery than substance . Three-fifths of a great movie sunk by a crucial tonal misstep . A cross between Lord of the Flies , Swiss Family Robinson and Apocalypse Now . is n't much conflict in its plot The movie feels like a mixed-up collection of high points from a book . A mad assemblage of earlier , better bungle-in-the-jungle stories . 	Critics say The Beach is unfocused and muddled , a shallow adaptation of the novel it is based on . Points go to the gorgeous cinematography , though .
spring summer fall winterand spring Spare and contained , with a timeless quality that makes it seem less a product of an individual human imagination than a collective memory ... If Tarantino 's film is built to thrill , Spring , Summer is made to last . Truly remarkable , this is the most accessible of his films , to be sure , but there remains an edge that makes it all the more remarkable when the film settles in to be simply quiet and beautiful . Exceptional . Exquisitely crafted . Poetry in motion . Spring , Summer , Fall , Winter ... and Spring provides an oasis from contemporary rhythms . Absolutely stunning and unforgettable ... you 'll want to savor this gem again and again with repeated viewings . The Bressonian mixture of intense labor , bodily devotion , and the palpable breath of spirituality across the frames is a peak few films seek to scale , and even fewer attain . Where Kim 's best-known movie , The Isle , was a stomach-churner , this beautifully composed canvas is the sort of film one falls into , resurfacing at the end with great reluctance . Perhaps most impressive are Kim 's simple yet profound cyclic repetitions , which build to a climatic transcendental moment before once again returning to life 's circular flow 	A visually stunning and contemplative piece of work .
friday after next Leisurely , waxy potpourri of messy sight gags , coarse sex jokes and all-pro bad behavior . Ice Cube is n't quite out of ripe screwball ideas , but Friday After Next spreads them pretty thin . Friday After Next is a lot more bluster than bite . The movie has no respect for laws , political correctness or common decency , but it displays something more important : respect for its flawed , crazy people . Hews to the Sequel Curve ( first one good , the rest increasingly mediocre ) . Far more enjoyable than its predecessor . Neither as good as its direct ancestor nor as clever as the original Friday , this is , to put it bluntly , all seeds and stems . Cube and Epps play off each other well , but the comedy 's success lies mostly in its talented stable of supporting actors . Something to offend everyone . You 'd have to be applying pretty loose critical standards to describe Friday After Next ... as a good movie , but in the coming weeks it may certainly prove a useful one . 	This Friday installment is more shapeless and stale than its predecessors .
1017641-risky business Paul Brickman makes a splashy debut with a stylish youth satire that conveys more vividly Reagonomics and the corrupt and decadent decade of 1980s than serious dramas like Wall Street ; it 's also a wonderful showcase for Tom Cruise , who became a star . Writer-director Paul Brickman can therefore be accused of trying to have it both ways , but there 's no denying the stylishness and talent of his direction . Now classic Cruise-in-briefs highlights the goings on . For writer/director Paul Brickman , this was a case of being in the right place at the right time and , perhaps most importantly , getting the right leading man in place . involving and entertaining Apesar de ingnua para os padres contemporneos , esta comdia ainda funciona graas ao carisma jovial de Cruise . A taut , bitter , sharp and nearly flawless film . One of the finest film explorations of the end of innocence . It 's sexy , smart and funny , but also stylish and filled with social satire and commentary on the culture of money . What distinguishes it , however , is that it 's hovering permanently on the brink of stark , staring disaster in a way that strangely recalls The Graduate . 	Featuring one of Tom Cruise 's best early performances , Risky Business is a sharp , funny examination of teen angst that does n't stop short of exploring dark themes .
how do you know A thoroughly enjoyable and surprisingly lightweight romantic comedy from writer-director James L. Brooks . The last fifteen minutes is pretty good but that end does not justify the earlier means . It 's glossy and entirely forgettable , but the friendly , funny cast makes it worth seeing . The movie is all surface and trades on fortune-cookie wisdom and sitcom scenarios . Overlong but occasionally appealing rom com in which it is the intangibles of the relationships that prove to be everything The result is highly entertaining but hardly ranks with the director 's best work . Everything looks primed for civilized amusement , but somewhere along the way the laughs dropped off , together with the question mark in the title . Six years in the making and this is As Good As It Gets ? There are a couple of scenes of pure , sentimental genius , as well as appealingly boggled turns by Rudd and Wilson . This is most certainly not as good as it gets . 	How Do You Know boasts a quartet of likeable leads -- and they deserve better than this glib , overlong misfire from writer/director James L. Brooks .
matrix revolutions Even the Wachowski brothers do n't seem to know how to get out of this six-hour labyrinth they 've constructed . The Matrix Revolutions feels tired . While Reloaded and Revolutions might be technically proficient , they are largely devoid of the kind of wonder and storytelling that hooked us the first time . The more thought you give the film , the less it deserves . If only filmmakers Larry and Andy Wachowski could have saved themselves from their own machines . Their computer-generated imagery goes from dazzling to deadening . With The Matrix Revolutions , the Wachowski brothers have managed to pull off something nearly impossible . They 've made a movie about the end of the world that leaves us entirely indifferent to the outcome . For all the ponderous philosophizing found in Reloaded , Matrix Revolutions is surprisingly straightforward and more than a little cheesy . The Wachowski brothers have rendered their chronicles into banality , as if trying to imitate the qualitative tailspin of the Star Wars series . While superior to Reloaded , The Matrix Revolutions still ca n't quite justify turning a stand-alone classic into a trilogy . Spins an appropriate conclusion to the murky man-vs.- machines saga . 	A disappointing conclusion to the Matrix trilogy as characters and ideas take a back seat to the special effects .
10004925-matador Where an actor 's comfort zone and preconception of audience expectation intersect , Richard Shepard 's The Matador exists . Even though it 's a little too enamored with its edge and so obviously symbolic it could be called `` The Metaphor , '' Brosnan is at his best , and the movie 's got more on its mind than guns , giggles and a weenie-meets-warrior vibe . [ It ] comes across ... as a somewhat incoherent story told by a stranger in a hotel lobby bar . As exceptional as [ Brosnan and Kinnear ] are ... writer-director Richard Shepard 's film is ultimately the formula buddy picture that one would expect from the premise . Imagine if John Wayne had played a rodeo cowboy . Or Clint Eastwood played a mall security guard . That 's pretty much what happens to Pierce Brosnan in The Matador . You can almost feel Brosnan 's glee as he allows himself to let it all hang out , both figuratively and ( almost ) literally . The Matador is a delight . Brosnan displays a wonderful flair for comedy , while Kinnear is perfectly in tune as his shocked , straight-arrow foil . With great performances , including a scene stealing show stopper from Brosnan , and tight direction , this is a great crises of conscience tale . Shepard and his terrific cast turns a fairly simple premise into one of those rare buddy comedies that has both brains and heart ! A colorful , freewheeling tale that never gets beneath its darkly comic surface . 	This humorously amoral , oddball comic thriller features strong performances by Pierce Brosnan and Greg Kinnear as a flamboyant , aging hit-man and an out of work suburban businessman , respectively .
10008507-deep water It is the point -- and the power -- of Deep Water that the vast , unknowable fathoms of the sea are rivaled only by those of the human psyche . The documentary effectively blends contemporary and recent interviews with film and tape recordings made by Crowhurst aboard the Electron . Not only is this an incredible saga of Jack London proportions , it 's also a great detective tale . Humane and haunting . A spooky , moving doc that chronicles the first solo attempt to circle the world by boat . Echoes the dark poetry of Coleridge 's Ancient Mariner and Poe 's Arthur Gordon Pym , men who sailed to sea in search of fortune only to encounter the abyss within themselves . Osmond and Rothwell 's depiction of his unraveling is an exquisitely structured drama . Deep Water is a stunning documentary that not only beautifully elucidates a nearly forgotten incident but touches on crucial themes involving isolation , sanity , self-worth , impossible dreams , the nature of heroism and limits of human endurance . As directed by Louise Osmond and Jerry Rothwell , the movie breezes along at a highly watchable clip , thanks to fluid , affecting intercutting of archival , black-and-white footage and present-day interviews . A sad story , but well told , with respect for its subject and an eye for the Shakespearian tragedy in the tale . 	Equal parts mystery and biography , Deep Water is both an engrossing documentary and an affecting treatise on human folly and obsession .
black cauldron Middle road Disney animation , unmemorable . John Hurt 's gravelly voice of the Horned King steals the show . The characters , though cute and cuddly and sweet and mean and ugly and simply awful , do n't really have much to do that would remain of interest to any but the youngest minds . This is the 25th full-length animated feature from Walt Disney studios , and professionally put together as it is , many of the ingredients may seem programmed to those who have seen some of the others . By the end of The Black Cauldron I was remembering , with something of a shock of nostalgia , the strength and utter storytelling conviction of the early Disney animators . The Black Cauldron is a return to the tradition . The backgrounds are as richly textured and detailed as in any other Disney film . A flawed , but ambitious film that was obviously aiming to draw as many adults into the theater as children . With all of the talent and effort put into this , the movie only amounts to a bunch of premature ideas that are clumped together , making little sense . Possibly not the worst animated feature the House Of Mouse has produced , but certainly stumbling around the darker recesses of the Disney vault . ... it serves a purpose in reminding us that even today 's animation ca n't compare to the brilliance that hand-drawn animation offers its audience . 	Ambitious but flawed , The Black Cauldron is technically brilliant as usual , but lacks the compelling characters of other Disney animated classics .
alpha and omega It 's an ugly , laughless 3-D cartoon about wolves that is so wussified and stupidified that it 'll bore kids and make their adult minders wish they 'd done something comparatively interesting , like cleaning the gutters in the rain . Alpha and Omega proves that sometimes more is more and less is less for a reason . A thrilling adventure full of imagination and humor . It 's the best animated film of the season . You do n't have to be a kid to enjoy it . Almost totally bereft of surprises . 'Alpha and Omega ' enters the crowded marketplace with little to say for itself . Stumbles every time it attempts to rise above the perfunctory , with its tiresome comic-relief geese and bog-standard internecine rivalry in the wolf pack . After preliminary special-effects high jinks -- wolves bobsledding a hollow log down a twisty mountain run -- Alpha and Omega kicks into An Important Life Lesson . Young viewers might be distracted enough by the log-sledding critters to overlook the movie 's lack of wit , but for most , there 's nothing here to howl about . We have the litmus test for 3D 's ability to squeeze money from a stone . Lionsgate 's entree into 3-D animation ignores the characters ' animalistic appeal and , instead , rewrites wolf culture in a lifeless romp . 	With bland visuals and a dull , predictable plot , Alpha and Omega is a runt in 2010 's animated litter .
amadeus never before have phrases like 'sh*t marble ' been uttered in film , and true genius is presented unpretentiously Milos Forman 's opulent drama is sheer quality . One of the best American films of the 1980s . The story is utterly devastating , but it is lifted and made accessible by the combination of cinematic ingenuity and astonishingly real performances . It 's got more music , more drama , more of what made it a big winner with audiences and critics 18 years ago . A bit overdone and overblown , the movie could have easily had a half-hour cut out of it , and no one would have noticed . A rewarding pictorial of a fascinating time -- its culture , music and notable people . The subject of artistic creation is typically handled badly in the movies ... . [ Amadeus ] treats the subject of creativity in a fresh way . ... if the director , the producer , and the writer approved of the added scenes , I 'm not going to complain . One way or the other , Amadeus remains a great film . Except for the Mozart music and Tharp movements around the edges , Amadeus plays like a monument to mediocrity . 	A lavish , entertaining , powerful film about the life and influence , both positive and negative , of one of Western culture 's great artists .
empire strikes back See it and prepare to be captivated by the most spellbinding sci-fi film of them all . The storytelling is the series ' best , with a zingy balance of drama , humor , and Deep Thoughts . El Episodio V es el ms oscuro de la saga de Star Wars , pero tambin , el ms seductor . Easily the best of the Star Wars saga , sad but thrilling . Each section of the film has a stand-out sequence that inspires hyperbole like 'best ever . ' The Empire Strikes Back is a total delight . Technical virtuosity and entertainment ingenuity . A dramatic illustration of the continued technical brilliance and leadership of the Lucas production team . Great follow-up to the original tale of a galaxy far , far away , this film has plenty of action , one-liners , special-effects , good vs evil rivalries and a pleasantly dark ending . For many Star Wars fans , this second installment is the best of the George Lucas trilogy : a dark , ultimately melancholy , even philosophical episode that has no triumphant happy ending . 	Dark , sinister , but ultimately even more involving than A New Hope , The Empire Strikes Back defies viewer expectations and takes the series to heightened emotional levels .
cassandras dream Allen 's storytelling is crisper here than it has been all decade , even if he 's making shadow puppets out of the forewarnings . Taken for what it is , and without hoping for another Match Point or Crimes and Misdemeanors , Cassandra 's Dream is a fine genre film that succeeds at what it attempts , even if it does n't attempt all that much . It 's wearying to watch Allen 's murder obsession when he does n't know how to dramatize morality . When it comes to wrapping up the story , Allen ca n't seem to make up his mind . Nearing the end of his career , Woody Allen has become a hit-or-miss director with considerably more misses . Cassandra 's Dream feels rote and inauthentic . Like so many late-period Allens , it leaves behind the feeling that he 's made this movie before , but better . There 's not a believable character , nor line of convincing dialogue to be found . By the time the blokes played by McGregor and Farrell get around to confronting their misdeeds , they 're the only ones who care . Farrell 's performance is the highlight in this uneven English blend of high drama and afternoon telly . Did Woody Allen kill somebody once ? Could somebody check and make sure Tony Roberts is OK ? 	Colin Farrell and Tom Wilkinson act up a storm in Cassandra 's Dream , but Woody Allen 's heavy-handed symbolism and foreshadowing drains the plot of all tension .
american history x if you 've forgotten how to stay calm while somebody probes you with a pointed object such as racism -- stay home or make sure you watch this film to the end . The tone is so muddled that there 's a whiff of exploitation to this movie that 's unsettling at best . Though well-intentioned , turns out to be a simplistic and unconvincing look at a serious problem . I just wish the film did n't give us an entire year 's history curriculum about racism in two hours . A work of impressive scale and craft and not a movie that 's easy to dismiss in the end . An ambitious , well-acted film ! A powerful and disturbing social document . Uncompromising piece of filmmaking , intelligently written and dramatically shot ! The film packs a hell of a punch ! A well-made , well-acted and often violent film that offers a compelling portrait of redemption and the destructive nature of racism . 	A compelling and provocative story led by an excellent performance by Edward Norton .
her Witty , tender and arrestingly gorgeous , Her is a masterpiece . Phoenix 's central performance is of the lofty levels we have come to expect of him while Johansson disarms with only her voice . Her pushes some interesting notions and sports some lovely dialogue ... Still , the film contains enough niggling details to prevent me from jumping on the Best of 2013 bandwagon . Moving , melancholy , sweet , sexy , and very , very funny , I feel such fondness for Jonze 's Her ... Becoming self aware : it 's not just for robots anymore . ... Her is an emotionally involving and wonderfully layered look at our desire to reach out and connect ... It 's both sweet and considered and observant about our fears , masks and growing alienation . The only other filmmaker who knows how to make sound , music and moment fit like a fitting of a perfectly suited slipper would be Sofia Coppola . Patience . Trust . A strangely penetrating look at our future in a tech based world of isolation with a quietly moving and vulnerable performance by Joaquin Phoenix . Gives moviegoers much to think about and discuss , on levels both sophomoric and profound . The combination of Jonze 's dialogue , the intensity of the performances and the way the film 's style wraps you up in Theodore and Samantha 's inner-ear relationship makes this feel like a uniquely apt diagnosis of contemporary ills . Her is a strikingly inventive work , and Jonze ( who also wrote its script ) once again shows his flair for approaching big ideas from oblique angles . While intimacy and exclusivity are the core ideas being explored , very little is taboo ... 'Eliza , ' you 've come a long way , baby . 	Sweet , soulful , and smart , Spike Jonze 's Her uses its just-barely-sci-fi scenario to impart wryly funny wisdom about the state of modern human relationships .
1146673-1146673-stealth Competent and entertaining , ridiculous and fun . The sort of movie that makes you pine for Michael Bay . You 'll groan , you 'll wince , you 'll gasp , but you wo n't be bored -- and if you stay through the end credits , you 'll be rewarded with a perfectly ridiculous capper . A movie about a robotic , super-intelligent warplane with a second act that consists of court-martials , generic rescue missions , and people sneaking around with crowbars . A movie filled with dumb moments . Beyond mind-numbing explosions , Stealth 's effects are good , especially the whooshing flight scenes . But as Eddie shows , humanity matters , and computer wizardry wo n't fill an empty plot . The blueprints for Stealth called for long-forgotten spare parts , and the end result will likely cause a box-office crash . Aiming to join the Jerry BruckheimerJerry Bruckheimer/Michael BayMichael Bay school of American movie war games , Stealth is just too dumb to make the grade . Stealth succeeds in satisfying a dozen different pubescent fantasies while simultaneously violating every aspect of logic and good taste . Reflects Cohen 's own aesthetic modus operandi of replacing all traces of humanity with digitized artificiality . 	Loud , preposterous , and predictable , Stealth borrows heavily and unsucessfully from Top Gun and 2001 .
virgin suicides I ca n't quite give the movie a negative review , because I do concur with the critical consensus that Coppola has made an impressive directorial debut . A disturbing , surprisingly humorous and insightful film . This corrosive tragi-comedy is a surprisingly well-put-together little movie that achieves most of its goals . The film is stylish and unarguably thought-provoking . It will resonate with anyone who 's ever gone through adolescence . It ranks with the very best films of the year . Black comedy has never looked so good . An extremely sure-handed filmmaking debut from Coppola , daughter of Francis . Her script alone is a marvel of subtlety and intelligence . A rather stunted and sliggish exercise in style whose sporadically haunting visual quality does n't make up for its shallowness and ponderous pace . Sofia Coppola has made one of the most unusual films ever fashioned out of the fears and the fantasies of adolescent boys . Though she wisely foregoes drawing simplistic conclusions from a story brimming with unanswerable questions , Coppola does n't scratch very far below the surface of this enigmatic fairy tale . 	Sofia 's successful directorial debut lies in the movie 's compelling story and the actors ' genuine emotions .
in the land of women The kind of movie where everyone has problems , people reveal their deepest longings and fears to a person they just met , and every scene seems to start with the phrase , 'I have to tell you something . ' An appealingly scruffy if overly programmatic drama . Most of this is harmless enough , but Kasdan 's Hollywood logic is simply too implausible . I distrust any film in which people stand and argue and/or kiss in pelting rain ... while the movie is littered with precisely the sort of problems one generally associates with a first effort , the filmmaker does a nice job of infusing the proceedings with just enough authenticity and heart to maintain the viewer 's continued interest . Touching-but-treacly chick flick for moms & teens . The film belongs to Brody , an endearing screen presence . The peculiarly male self-centeredness seen here is repulsive and astonishing . Meg Ryan 's breast cancer , the grandmother 's dementia , the teenage girl 's angst : All these traumas primarily exist to help a young man find himself . Shows very little respect for women and makes a youthful male soft-core porn writer into a supposed seer dispensing wisdom . An admirable first effort and likely to be enjoyed by women who would n't mind meeting that good-looking , self-effacing young man , and men who may be under the illusion that they in some way resemble him . 	While pleasantly acted , In the Land of Women is a dramatically stilted film with underdeveloped characters .
imagine me and you There 's a cinematic tradition that movies taking their titles from pop songs turn out to be bombs . 'Imagine Me & You ' upholds it . The cordial company of the characters and the snappy wit of the script make Ol Parker 's British romantic comedy the equivalent of comfort food a pleasant cinematic snack . I guess there 's something progressive going on when a lesbian love story gets to be just as dreadful and tacky as most straight ones . The characters never really emerge as individuals ; they 're pretty puppets , moving through their prescribed paces . Romance is fine and dandy , but when it 's treated as the cake , instead of the icing on it , you hardly end up with an authentic , interesting story As nice as it is to imagine popular movies depicting lesbian relationships without guilt or trauma , Imagine Me & You ultimately trips over its own daft enthusiasm . Romantic comedies do n't get more generic than this one . Had it not been for the homosexual content this script would have been considered too crappy to film The characterizations are wooden , the interaction maudlin and the plot totally predictable . I really like the people in Imagine Me and You , but I ca n't stand the movie they 're stuck in . 	Aside from its lesbian theme , Imagine Me & You can only offer more of the same generic rom-com cliches .
minis first time Guthe is so anxious to show us what a larcenous tramp Mini is that he never shows us any other sides to her . We have her pegged from the get-go , even if no one in the movie does . A lethal joyride through the debauched lifestyles of L.A. 's glamour-industry elite . It 's a bad , preposterous and horrifyingly cliched black comedy about a girl gone wicked . A cheeky neo-noir that updates Double Indemnity for the high school set , Mini 's First Time trades in black humor so dim you 'd need a flashlight to find it . A deliciously evil black comedy that 's sure to elicit lots of shameful giggles throughout . a bloated waste of time and money ... an unequivocal low . The characters in Mini are played by fine performers ( Alec Baldwin , Jeff Goldblum , Carrie-Anne Moss ) , but they 're still one-note . Mini 's First Time is a down-and-dirty exercise in depravity and debauchery ; in other words , just the kind of plot that gets us to turn off the TV and head for the multiplex -- blue states and red states alike . Black teenage comedy in a cautionary tale about the dangers of kids growing up alone . Mini is impossible to like , especially since she delivers some of the worst narration ever spoken , and her final lines are like a big middle finger to viewers foolish enough to enjoy the film . 	This black comedy wavers between sleaze and satire , without ever fully committing to either .
herbie fully loaded Any responsible person should be wary of a vehicle that accelerates on its own , winks with its headlights and sprays hot oil at hostile onlookers . Fully Loaded adds up to little more than a cynical marriage of marketable commodities -- Lohan , NASCAR and the durably profitable Bug himself . Five credited writers have managed to complete the script without a single surprise and with a couple of odd omissions . A fun , silly family movie that , like its star , has more under its hood than expected . Though Lohan does n't embarrass herself in a film in which she appears in virtually every frame , this tepid tribute to girl power hardly represents a step forward from Lohan 's breakthrough roles . Herbie : Fully Loaded , with its emotional-roller-coaster story beats , will work like gangbusters with kids . Herbie is the kind of funny , frenetic family movie that really does offer something for everyone . I took my parents ! We had a great time . Very well directed and edited to a sweet clipping pace . Never a dull moment . This is just good clean family fun ! Una muy agradable sorpresa veraniega que bien vale la pena disfrutar con la familia , con una buena bolsa de palomitas y , lo ms importante , con alma de nio Its vibrating crowd scenes and splashy visuals will please the seven-to-12 set . 	Herbie : Fully Loaded is a decent kids movie that is pretty undemanding for adult viewers .
what dreams may come Starting out as an exploration of the imagination , the film ends with an eloquent statement about compassion . What Dreams May Come ? If I were a betting man , I 'd say none . Zilch . Nada . Bleech . `What Dreams May Come ' is so breathtaking , so beautiful , so bold in its imagination ! Visually breathtaking and intellectually intriguing ! All the weeping and hugging the characters do ca n't make up for the film 's fatal lack of texture and psychological nuance . I stunned myself by really enjoying this one . Just as the devil gets all the good lines , it is easy for a dramatic , chaotic hell to upstage a meditative , placid heaven The film lurches ... toward greatness , dazzling the viewer with a spectacular view of heaven that is not only beautiful but also profoundly moving . Not to say that this disappointing romantic fantasy is derivative , but it seems more like a hodge-podge assembly of scenes from other movies than a cohesive feature film . The pedantic script 's tedium is more than offset by the handsomeness of the production . 	An insubstantial plot overshadows the beautiful , surreal scenery .
1019544-spartacus Spartacus to this day remains one of the most rousing action epics ever filmed . Kirk Douglas , while a little old in the role , makes a fine action hero , and Stanley Kubrick 's still-accessible directing made the movie click . Arguably the greatest sword 'n ' sandal movie of them all . It is a spotty , uneven drama . This epic saga of the price of freedom is thrilling to watch , the struggles of conscience as gripping as the brilliantly staged battle scenes . Decades later , it 's still one of the most intelligent and stirring histrical epics to have come out of Hollywood , serving as a model for future generations of filmmakers . It 's especially strong , and more typical of Kubrick , in the first half -- before satire gives way to sentiment . Many scenes ring passionate and rousing , while others are campy and silly , and somehow they all work together . ... notable not only for its expected sword play and scenery , but for the genuine complexity of its characters , their relationships , and their political intrigues . Though this is hardly a Kubrick film , since Kubrick was n't involved in the preproduction , Douglas 's wisdom in calling on Kubrick to bail him out on this ambitious production is evident throughout . 	Featuring terrific performances and epic action , Kubrick 's restored swords-and-sandals epic is a true classic .
cold weather A clouds-and-all portrait of home that feels more like my town than just about anything I 've ever seen -- a harder trick than it would seem , but one worthy of mastering . The movie does have a charm that develops gradually . This is a slacker detective story , emphasis on the slack , and if you can downshift into its loping rhythms , it 's pretty wonderful . It feels like you spend 96 minutes seeing the sights of Portland . This movie becomes tedious and the sluggish pace requires the viewer to have lots of patience . The world 's first mumblecore ''thriller '' - a good idea for a movie that someone , in the future , should execute a bit less lackadaisically . Can mumblecore make a decent crime thriller ? From the evidence provided , the answer would be a qualified yes . As the practically somnambulist Doug , Lankenau has a ramshackle charm that recalls Mark Ruffalo , while Dunn does wonders with a part that has to be created mainly in reaction shots . A detective movie that works much better as a story of sibling bonding . In terms of storytelling sophistication , his latest feature , Cold Weather -- despite the fact that it falls down cold in the last act -- feels like a step toward something bigger and better . Cold Weather is not without its charm but it really does test the patience of the viewer . 	For viewers who manage to stay invested in its occasionally aimless story , Cold Weather proves a surprisingly sophisticated blend of mumblecore and indie noir .
da vinci code Howard lacks the skill as a filmmaker to glide over laughable dialogue and preposterous myths to concentrate on the good stuff -- like solving the riddles , decoding the mysteries -- that does make The Da Vinci Code so appealing as a story . Suffice it to say that this film is n't as bad as it is simply dopey and dull , and that nothing I or any other critic says will dissuade millions from seeing it anyway . The book was more cinematic than its on-screen version so that the very act of adapting it throws it out of balance . What is left to the imagination in the book comes across as heavy-handed and over the top on screen . The Da Vinci Code is baloney , but as a film , I have to admit that it 's entertaining baloney . A jumbled , joyless affair that neither entertains nor enlightens . I wo n't go so far as to recommend it , and I ca n't imagine ever wanting to see it again . Ultimately , it 's a work of fiction that , translated to another medium , seems to have lost its punch . ... Mr. Howard and Mr. Goldsman handle the supposedly provocative material in Mr. Brown 's book with kid gloves , settling on an utterly safe set of conclusions about faith and its history , presented with the usual dull sententiousness . Sinister yet only mildly suspenseful , this overly cautious `` Code '' certainly is n't all it 's cracked up to be . Ron Howard 's beautifully framed The Da Vinci Code sticks to author Dan Brown 's controversial wild goose-chase thriller pretty religiously . 	What makes Dan Brown 's novel a best seller is evidently not present in this dull and bloated movie adaptation of The Da Vinci Code .
che part two Che Part 2 is still problematic in that it unfolds at a glacial pace . Though it 's at times hypnotic in its lethargy , the episodic structure is not easy to trudge through . ... while Part Two needs Part One and not vice versa , it is Part Two that is the more cinematically daring and enveloping . Coming directly after the enthralling sweep of The Argentine , it 's easy to lose some faith in Soderbergh 's ability to obtain a consistent pace to the picture . These are films that are certainly thought out clearly but not nearly felt enough . Darker in tone and more introspective thematically , Che : Part 2 is the more interesting of the two films . The persuasiveness of the film 's reconstructions is impressive , but there is hardly ever any tension . It 's hard to tell exactly what Soderbergh was hoping to achieve . At this length , that 's an unforgivable sin . After the exhilaration of Part One , the mood of Part Two seems somber , almost funereal , but it 's integral to the story . This plodding , one-paced , dramatically inert movie is almost entirely surface description . His film is brilliantly shot , capturing the chilly bareness of the landscapes through which the rebels yomp , but it 's formalist and clinical to a degree that will challenge viewers eager to identify with the figures it depicts . 	The second part of Soderbergh 's biopic is a dark , hypnotic and sometimes frustrating portrait of a warrior in decline , with a terrific central performance from Del Toro .
robin hood 2010 Ridley Scott and a vast army of actors , crew and extras produce a massive new Robin Hood that stands with the veteran director 's best work . In a motion picture buried by its own lifeless , meandering self-importance , the viewer looks at the screen , takes it all in , and questions every step of the way why he or she should care whatsoever about any of it . A beautiful bore : Robin has daddy issues and Ridley Scott pushes income redistribution Scott gives the proceedings an air of sombre importance , resulting in a film that ( ... ) feels strangely laboured and lacking in the pleasure that even the darkest adventure can provide . Its $ 200-million budget is on the screen . This is a big-scale ambitious period epic in the 60s grand tradition . It seeks to retell a well-worn tale , to put old wine in a shiny new bottle . I 'm thinking the title of the movie should be Ridley Scott 's Robin Hood - How to make the English hate the French again . The film is 140 minutes long , and it ends at the part where things are just starting to get interesting . The story that comes after this one -- that sounds fun ! But not this one . Robin Hood is a high-tech and well made violent action picture using the name of Robin Hood for no better reason than that it 's an established brand not protected by copyright . Like his weapons of choice , Robin Hood needs to soar ; Scott has anchored him in a needlessly self-important tale that only rarely achieves the lightness of flight . The swash buckles under the weight of heavy verbiage in Robin Hood , Ridley Scott 's well-intended but weakly executed retelling of the ancient woodland hero legend . 	Ridley Scott 's revisionist take on this oft-told tale offers some fine acting and a few gripping action sequences , but it 's missing the thrill of adventure that made Robin Hood a legend in the first place .
chariots of fire This 31-year-old Oscar winning true-life drama climaxing at the 1924 games proved a winner all the way . And it still is . A period piece that explores timeless themes of temporal ambitions and higher purposes , of commitment and sacrifice , of ability and spirit . The reason it succeeds with audiences around the world is that it 's a stirring tale about inspiring people . [ An ] airless saga of university toffs building themselves up to run for God and country at the 1924 Summer Olympics in Paris ... This is quite possibly the most lyrical , most spiritual sports movie ever made . Even after 31 years , Chariots of Fire does n't simply impress ; it inspires . A movie that , with the help of Vangelis Papathanassiou 's wonderfully stirring music , lifts the spirits to a new high . Vangelis was the secret weapon that Riefenstahl did n't have . The battered Britons may have some excuse for enjoying this nostalgic re-creation of empire ideology , but what 's ours ? A pleasant inspirational movie that failed to inspire me . 	Decidedly slower and less limber than the Olympic runners at the center of its story , the film nevertheless manages to make effectively stirring use of its spiritual and patriotic themes .
american graffiti This superb and singular film catches not only the charm and tribal energy of the teen-age 1950s but also the listlessness and the resignation that underscored it all like an incessant bass line in one of the rock-'n'-roll songs of the period . A funny-serious movie with gorgeous cars and colours and an amazing feel for the artefacts of an instantly vanished era . Lucas ' direction is skilful and assured -- he follows several stories with wit and sensitivity -- and he 's matched by his cast , the whole film perfectly evoking the end of an era . The film that launched a thousand careers . Coming-of-age classic still a must-see for teens . [ A ] hugely influential docu-drama . ... the ultimate nostalgia movie of all time ... Maybe the best film about teenagers ever made . Nearly 40 years later it still plays as a loose and vibrant testament to an era that is so distinctly America . I love Star Wars more , but strictly speaking , this is probably a better film . 	One of the most influential of all teen films , American Graffiti is a funny , nostalgic , and bittersweet look at a group of recent high school grads ' last days of innocence .
1018047-sabrina Bogey and Hepburn - classic . A semi-classic for the semi-literate . ... the results were satisfying , as Bogart played drawing-room comedy with aplomb . It 's a perfect souffl of a movie -- or to borrow an apt phrase from Ian Anderson , it 's a 'breath of champagne on a sparkling night . ' It 's a Cinderella story that gets turned on its head , a satire about breaking down class and emotional barriers , and a confrontation between New World callousness and Old World humanity . Ultimately , what we 've got is a light comedy that 's super-charged by a strong cast , excellent direction ( Billy Wilder keeps things moving ) and a sharp script . There may be further objections to the feature 's overlength and spotty tempo . A charming reworking of the classic Cinderella story , Billy Wilder 's Sabrina featurs a terrific cast , headed by William Holden , Humphrey Bogart ( in a comedy role ! ) , and best of all Audrey Hepburn . A frothy delight . This is never less than glittering entertainment , but somehow a certain measure of lead has found its way into the formula . 	With its humorous script and its stars ' immense charm , Sabrina remains a resonant romantic gem .
australia There 's enough material in Australia to warrant a mini-series , which is how the feature film plays out . In one sitting , it 's a tough sit . `` Australia '' occasionally stumbles into corny sidesteps like Hugh Jackman 's `` Oh , crikey '' catchphrase . But Baz Luhrmann mythologized his homeland as American directors like John Ford did with Westerns - dramatic-license exaggerations that pay off in droves . There 's a lot to admire here , but not enough . At once sprawling and intimate , melodramatic and comic , magnificent and utterly bonkers , it bears entertaining witness to Luhrmann 's love of old movies and his Down Under homeland . Baz Luhrmann 's Australia is a sweeping , grand epic in the tradition of Gone With the Wind that gets away from its talented director , the writers he worked with and the team he hired to film his passion project . Kitsch and cliche drive the story , but the faces and locations are stunning -- when the movie 's over , you feel like you 've been somewhere and seen something . It 's a fine romp , epic in both ambition and visuals if not narrative - and if director Baz Luhrmann had stopped at the end of the love story 's trajectory , the audience would have left entirely happy . Recalls the old-fashioned , golden-age Hollywood movie-movies that wrapped forbidden desire , aching heartbreak , personal tragedy , war , adventure and breathtaking thrills in a glittering overlay of movie-star glamor . Luhrmann is drawn to kitsch as inevitably as a bear to honey . You do n't find many three-hour fairy tale love story war films about race relations featuring the ultra-competitive beef market in northern Australia . For good reason . 	Built on lavish vistas and impeccable production , Australia is unfortunately burdened with thinly drawn characters and a lack of originality .
yours mine and ours The movie slowly progresses in predictable fashion , with every misunderstanding ( and final rapprochement ) carefully choreographed . The film is directed in typically dull , overblown , idiotic fashion by Raja Gosnell , the man responsible for Big Momma 's House and both of the Scooby-Doo movies . This Cheaper-by-the-Dozening of the 1968 comedy is astoundingly unfunny . Looking to follow the Cheaper By The Dozen formula to box office success , Yours , Mine & Ours is a tiresome kids comedy that 's mostly loud and mean-spirited . A bland , numbingly obvious mix of slapstick and sentimentality . Yours , Mine , and Ours is so bad you might not legally be allowed to call it a movie . Everything in the film is totally predictable . Tame and uninspired . The remake seems to have been written and directed by people whose only experience with children is the long-distant memory of having been kids themselves so many years ago . Another pointless remake with a cast who should know better . 	The initial set-up is unbelievable , the plotting is predictable and stale , and the comedy depends on repetitive pratfalls that soon get old .
closet The Closet has a blithe tone and a capable cast , but Veber 's script is 100 percent laugh-free . We are left with a mildly amusing comedy and the lingering memory of a sterling cast that deserved better material . [ Auteuil ] deftly achieves what amounts to an actor 's paradox : He brings to the forefront a character who exists in the background . Veber 's script has a genuine sweetness to it . I caught myself feeling surprised that such a banal movie could actually be off-the-cuff and entertaining . It is n't earth-shattering , but , like Veber 's film , it disturbs our complacency . A harmless , genial sitcom comedy that has little bite in its political and sexual agenda ... Survives the dangers of its risky premise . An expertly acted divertissement . The Closet worthy of coming out for . 	A pleasant comedy with a great cast .
house of mirth So mannered and discreet that it 's dull . Engagingly stylized and ... filled with showy performances . [ Davies ] puts his trust in Anderson , who rises to the occasion beautifully , lending her character a veritable synthesis of human strengths and frailties . It 's no fetishized lost world , but one that is fiercely , uncomfortably present . Populated by three-dimensional characters who quietly illustrate the hypocrisy and double-dealing required to keep one 's spot in society . Makes a much read American classic feel new and freshly devastating . Davies ' adaptation encompasses all the layers and below surface simmerings of Wharton 's story . The miscast leads make this stately , BBC-ish adaptation ponderous instead of pointed . In a sense , [ Anderson is ] perfect for the role of a woman who , as Selden describes her , 'has it in her to be whatever she believed to be . ' Meticulously made with graceful style , Terence Davies ' adaptation of Wharton is superior to Scorsese 's Age of Innocence , the author 's other famous novel . 	Despite being a period piece , The House of Mirth 's depiction of social cruelty still feels chilling and relevant for today .
napoleon dynamite a wry and sober comedy about family neglect and social ostracism that is deeply , truly funny With a low-key sense of humor and without the slightest whiff of sentimentality , Hess delivers a film about geeks that makes Revenge of the Nerds look like the Hollywood tripe that it is . Calling this story about a quirky high-school student from a dysfunctional family who lives in a goofy small town a one-joke movie is exaggerating by a factor of 10 . A quirky , one-of-a-kind comedic gem . Even when you are n't laughing out loud , you wo n't be able to stop from smiling . One-of-a-kind high school comedy for the family . May be the most condescending comedy ever to imagine itself being too cool for the room . The bits are hit-and-miss , though the funny ones are often very funny . For those who think there'e nothing funnier than yokels acting like idiots for 90 minutes straight . Nerdiness will never seem the same . What is touching , however , and perhaps the film 's central theme , is the strength , however strangely expressed , of the friendship between Napoleon , Deb and Pedro . 	A charming , quirky , and often funny comedy .
1072385-kingpin The Farrelly brothers funniest comedy . Has plenty of clever sight gags and outrageous jokes you ca n't help laughing at , no matter how hard you resist . I found the sleazy comedy more tedious than watching an actual bowling match . With maybe 25 belly laughs , the brazenly crude Kingpin is often uproarious , but be forewarned that its creators apparently conceived it underneath a limbo bar . How looow can a funny guilty pleasure go ? It 's Bill Murray who easily swipes the picture -- he 's at his unctuous best as Ernie McCracken , an oily bowler with an ego as enormous as his libido . ... a pervasively uneven comedy that just is n't able to overcome its various deficiencies ... Ends up with a seven-ten split between hilariously tasteless and just plain distasteful . Funny , outrageous , vulgar . The only bowling comedy in memory . ... fun , even if most of it is based on cruelty and hardship . Kingpin makes inspired comedy by channeling the Weber spirit-and the humble reality of the circuit-through the frame of an inspirational sports movie . 	Kingpin has its moments , but they 're often offset by an eagerness to descend into vulgar mean-spiritedness .
undefeated 2012 Undefeated may be familiar . But it is an unscripted , unadulterated score . if you find yourself reaching for the Kleenex during the film 's final emotionally charged minutes , you most definitely wo n't be alone . `` Undefeated '' needs less of what we know we 've seen ( the football stuff ) and more of the players ' and coaches ' lives , which even if we feel we 've seen , we have n't . Undefeated is far more interested in the resilience of the human spirit than one hundred yards of green turf . Courtney and his crew all seem like nice people , but if there 's an unironic audience for this kind of romantic jock-cup fondling , I 'm not interested in knowing it . Makes a substantial emotional impact whenever coach Bill Courtney and his powerful words dominate a particular scene . A compelling documentary chronicling not just football exploits but a few bona fide cases of quality character revealed . Finds the warmth and vulnerability that is sometimes hard for outsiders to see beneath the rough , damaged exterior of the impoverished Memphis neighborhood where much of the action takes place . In truth , the story that unfolds is better than the filmmakers ' sometimes overwrought attempts to frame it ... For the most part admirably chooses honest documentation over emotional manipulation . 	It covers familiar sports documentary territory , but Undefeated proves there are still powerful stories to be told on the high school gridiron .
look at me Now that Woody Allen has gone off the rails , it seems the next best thing for urbane moviegoers seeking sharp , educated comedic dramas is French up-and-comer Agns Jaoui ... a sharp illustration of how it feels to resent someone you know you 're supposed to love . It 's a tender , expertly wrought piece of human exchange , and therefore a scarce beast . Sadly , too much focus is spent on showing character traits that any kind of coherent story or compassion for characters is destroyed . A wonderfully emphatic and entertaining film . Set in a sophisticated Parisian milieu , Look at Me becomes a fascinating study in moral compromise as well as an astute depiction of life among a small group of intellectuals ostensibly living the good life . The characters exude moral three-dimensionality ; they 're not built to behave or please us . They 're not bound by that inflexible Hollywood contract to modify their lives and morals just in time for the ending . A biting and insightful tale of life in Parisian literary circles , and how celebrity and ambition can send ripples through relationships . Jaoui 's witty comedy of manners has an empathy that recalls the works of Woody Allen in the 1980s . In the tradition of Jean Renoir , Eric Rohmer or Robert Altman , Look at Me is a multi-character comedy of manners -- or , more accurately , ill-manners . 	An observant drama-comedy about self absorption .
paycheck Desperdia uma tima idia em prol da ao descerebrada . Seems like yet another job for hire for the great filmmaker , but one with a strong enough story to sustain our interest for two hours . Ben Affleck is a handsome fellow . No argument there . What he is n't is a particularly compelling leading man . Inexpressibly ropey sci-fi thriller joylessly directed by John Woo and based , natch , on a Philip K Dick short story . It does n't take a world-famous genius to peg this thing a paycheck movie if there ever was one . Too smart for a mindless actioneer , and too slick to capture the full moral weight of Dick 's dystopia . A brisk , enjoyable , implausible sci-fi thriller . Once Jennings starts McGuyvering his way out of trouble using items from his manila envelope of tricks , the story careens into a brain-dead end . Some remedial script work is in need , and the characters are far from compelling . But the action is up to scratch and it rattles happily along . The film 's greatest drawback was its director 's lack of vision and understanding of the world of technology . 	Though Dick 's short story has an intriguing premise , Woo reduces it to a lot of meaningless chases , shoot-outs , and explosions .
10011295-samson and delilah A poetic , tender and unflinchingly real love story . Its powerful visuals , music and raw , captivating performances will leave you feeling deeply moved . First-timers McNamara and Gibson deliver instinctive , assured performances . Director Warwick Thornton has a sharp eye and a big heart but his film is relentlessly grim . A unstinting look at the social outcasts of Australian society made by a member of aboriginal society , its grim narrative punctuated by off-kilter humor in a minimalist style . The film may be hard as hell to watch , but it 's even harder to look away from . One of the many feats director Thornton pulls off in this beautifully observed , thoughtful picture is that the leads spend the entire movie without uttering a word to each other . Sometimes , words are just redundant . First-time feature filmmaker Warwick Thornton chooses to avoid political stridency or cheap drama in favour of something much more complicated , artful and engaging . Is it hopeful , or entirely hopeless ? I do n't know - but found myself finally moved by this desperately sad film and by the performances of Rowan McNamara and Marissa Gibson as the lovers themselves . Thornton 's modest little story about two indigenous teens had been hailed as ground zero for a glorious new wave in Australian cinema . For once , the hyperbole seems justified ... Filled with brusque tenderness and dusty beauty , director Warwick Thornton 's first feature is a fine and moving example of outback neorealism . 	Alternately beautiful and heartrending , Samson and Delilah is terrifically acted and shot , and presents a complex portrait of what it means to be Australian .
skyline 2010 This is n't a movie : it 's an FX demo reel ... Skyline is n't about anything : it does n't reflect any contemporary fears that afflict individual people or anxieties that grip our entire culture ... Skyline has lots of TV actors going through the motions ( Faison , Balfour , Brittany Daniel ) and one TV actor ( Dexter 's David Zayas ) giving a performance that 's so spectacularly amateurish that it renders moot all of the other major problems the movie has . A weak science fiction film that does n't know how to end so it just stops . Imagine it 's 1953 and you 're watching a movie called 'Brain Suckers from Planet X ' , and you might even have a good time . Once the ace special effects and full-on monster mania take prominence over the soap opera plot , it does become weirdly fascinating . The premise of this low-budget sci-fi thriller might be familiar from Signs , War of the Worlds , and Cloverfield , but the lesser acting talent is more in line with Plan 9 from Outer Space . If 'Skyline ' never seems interested in pushing the envelope , it at least begins with enough promise to suggest a competent thriller . No such luck . The film plays like Cloverfield redux , except with less personality and tension . Behold : it 's Indepen-dunce Day . Let me say upfront and with absolute clarity that Skyline is a bad film . So why do n't I feel any animosity toward it ? I guess because despite everything that was wrong with this film I still had fun and laughed more than I did at Due Date . 	A middling sci-fi entry , Skyline offers proof that solid special effects alone can not overcome a flat storyline filled with uninspired dialogue .
hairspray ... there reaches a point at which such sequences start to take on repetitive and superfluous qualities ... The most rousing , most engaging and most successful movie musical in ages . The young and old cast division creates a colourful world of people and ideals . It 's an abstraction of an era made resonant , contemporary , and purely joyful . the only film out this summer I have been begging everyone to see , and the one film I 'm willing to see again and again . If ever there were a happy summer movie , it 's Hairspray . Silly , wears thin , but loads of fun Against all expectations , Hairspray turns out to be an explosion of industrial-strength good cheer , delivered by very smart show-biz pros with wit , passion , and a soupon of dementia . Resistance is futile . I will confess that Travolta totally turned me around . A mountain of a woman in his female fat suit , he commits 150 % to the role . It 's one of the best Broadway-tuner adaptations in recent years -- yes , arguably even better than those Oscar-winning ones . Unpretentious , feel-good pic is low on histrionic diva wailing and MTV-style editing , high on retro movie-musical craftsmanship . Everything about Hairspray is huge -- big figures , big 'dos , big musical numbers and big fun . It deserves to be a supersize hit . 	Hairspray is an energetic , wholly entertaining musical romp ; a fun Summer movie with plenty of heart . Its contagious songs will make you want to get up and start dancing .
1213731-worlds greatest dad A strange and wonderful new indie from director Bobcat Goldthwait . World 's Greatest Dad is a dark film , but it retains a likability factor from a very unexpected source : Robin Williams . For fans of perversely dark comedy , World 's Greatest Dad is a treasure trove of morbid sarcasm and gleeful malevolence . An amusing , cynical black comedy about our national addiction to tragedy , and our commoditization of grief ... It 's the kind of flick that makes you laugh and feel like maybe you should n't be chuckling quite so hard . Well you should n't , you sick bastard . World 's Greatest Dad makes sharp but obvious observations about the social strata of an American high school . What begins as a hilarious and even poignant look at the rift between adults and teenagers is totally undone by its ending . ... an intriguing set-up that 's generally employed to compelling effect by Goldthwait ... Who could have guessed that a cat named Bobcat could write a screenplay or direct a film as refreshingly sensitive as this one ? Tonally erratic , but chock-full of interesting concepts . 	World 's Greatest Dad is a risky , deadpan , dark comedy that effectively explores the nature of posthumous cults of celebrity .
cold in july 2014 A heart-stoppingly tense , cunningly twisty crime thriller The elements of what follows are all recognisable , with organised crime , police corruption and a pornography ring all stirred into the mix , but that 's part of the film 's seedy charm . The cult crime novel by Joe R Lansdale is skilfully adapted by director Jim Mickle ( Stake Land ) and his regular screenwriting partner Nick Damici into noir-ish cutting-edge pulp fiction . A gritty , sweaty and entertaining little slice of Texas noir . It makes a strong start but is desperately uneven tonally , and unravels into a bizarre spaghetti-mess of dangling loose ends . The modern equivalent of the B movies that studios used to make , and it reminds you of how good many of them were . These unique characters and performances breathe life into the moody world Mickle creates in this vivid , shocking thriller that sticks with you long afterward . Great performances keep this extended homage to seedy '80s thrillers walking the straight and narrow . Hall , Shepard and Johnson ... comprise a compelling trio in a fable that explores masculinity and the responsibility of fathers for their sons . A tangled tale of crime and punishment that mines the Lone Star lore of guns and killing . 	Boasting plenty of twists , a suitably seedy tone , and a memorable supporting turn from Don Johnson , Cold in July proves an uncommonly rewarding thriller .
cats and dogs the revenge of kitty galore Pets play spy games in this children 's movie that both spoofs high-tech espionage pictures and caters to single-digit sensibilities with gags about butt-sniffing canines . Lacks much of the sense of fun that made the original film a blast . not the plot nor the action nor most of the jokes offer the joy or delight to make Kitty Galore worth the trip to the multiplex For some reason , this sequel had some scathing reviews in the States , but I rather liked it and I reckon children will enjoy it . It 's all rather silly and somewhat sweet . Passes the way a pet lover hopes euthanasia goes for their beloved feline or canine-a blur of motion , moments drifting by in a numbing fog , then the blissful end , free of pain at last . A forgettable , clunky CGI tinkertoy . Cats & Dogs 2 will be disappointing to fans of the original and will probably fail to capture any new hearts in its own right . A horrible movie that likely will entertain ( very young ) children . But when movies like `` Toy Story 3 '' and `` Despicable Me '' are still in theaters , it feels irresponsible to force them to see this . The film 's target audience ... is going to largely be much too young to have any first-hand experience with the James Bond tropes being satirised . Like all unimaginative filmmakers that do n't know what to do with 3D technology , director Brad Peyton subordinates all action in the movie to the tech he 's working with . 	Dull and unfunny , this inexplicable sequel offers little more than the spectacle of digitally rendered talking animals with celebrity voices .
le week end Corrosive , witty and revealing story of a marriage laid bare during a last-ditch weekend in Paris . A mellow , playful , slightly melancholy atmosphere pervades much of `` Le Week-End , '' the latest collaboration between the screenwriter Hanif Kureishi and the director Roger Michell . Handsomely photographed - then again , it 's hard to make Paris ugly - Le Week-End is what Jesse and Celine may have to look forward to in 20 years . Le Week-End is a richly realized and exceptionally acted film that 's bursting with humour and humanity . For all its honesty , 'Le Week-end ' still feels in spots lazy . As with 'Venus , ' Kureishi does n't try to transcend all cliches and sentimentality . [ ... ] director Roger Michell [ ... ] maintains a slightly jagged rhythm that proves disarming , and he has two magnificent collaborators in Broadbent and Duncan [ ... ] . Le Week-End is aiming for authenticity between two people who have known each other for a very long time , but the end result is more like 90-minutes full of two hoary geese honking at each other that is practically excruciating to endure . The thoroughly ordinary melodrama a description suggests-a portrait of former '60s fire-starters who are perfectly happy to settle for embers . `` Le Week-End '' is a sour and misanthropic film masquerading as an honest and sensitive romance . Director Roger Michell ( `` Notting Hill '' ) has the good sense to step back and let Broadbent and Duncan work their magic on Hanif Kureishi 's script . They do n't disappoint . 	Topped with bittersweet humor but possessing surprisingly thorny depths , Le Week-End offers a sophisticated , well-acted portrait of late-life struggles and long-term marriage .
aqua teen hunger force colon movie film for theatres Its absurdist scenarios serve as little more than a ramshackle frame for bizarre non sequiturs , stoned pop-culture riffing , and some of the weirdest gags ever to make it into a studio-released film . The brainchild of Matt Maiellaro and Dave Willis is n't immune to the problem often faced by supersize cartoons -- namely , what might be effectively clever when doled out in episodic portions tends to get diluted over the course of an expanded format . Succeed [ s ] enough of the time to make a perversely entertaining movie . Its running time painfully accentuates the premise 's thinness . Aqua Teen Hunger Force Colon Movie Film for Theaters is a work of either a profoundly transgressive genius or a goofball high on Pez and patio sealant . Only die-hard addicts of the Cartoon Network series will want to sit through the entire film for its amusing moments . By the end , you may feel as if you 've been ballroom dancing with a live , exposed electric guitar cord for an hour and a half . At peak performance , it 's wired , chaotic madness . The makers of this film know who their audience is , and it probably is n't you . It 's this close to pure genius A massive collection of absurdist non sequiturs and deadpan pauses , which , depending on your tastes ( and possibly your affinity for mind-altering drugs ) , are either the stuff of comic genius or proof that the world has stopped making sense entirely . 	The non sequitur humor of Aqua Teen Hunger Force will surely appeal to its built-in fanbase , but for the uninitiated , the premise wears thin .
1196077-cloudy with a chance of meatballs one of the best non-Pixar animated titles ever . Parental Content Review Charmless . Silly and surprisingly funny , Meatballs is light on its feet and quick-witted , with a bonus self-awareness that most family flicks confuse with irony . It 's nice that the film brings some real-world crunch to the story - ethnic characters whose presence make a social point ... and a clear message about the downside of a society where food is overabundant . Writer-directors Phil Lord and Christopher Miller have expanded a 30-page children 's book by Judi and Ron Barrett into a 3D animated feature which boasts intricate design and goofy humour . It is harmless , entertaining fun for under-12s , and a worthy follow-up to Surf 's Up from Sony Pictures Animation . It 's not challenging Pixar just yet , or even Warner Brothers , but at least it 's heading in the right direction . It 's not just clever writing , but the kind of ballsy , caricature-pushing animation that the Warner Bros. shorts mastered decades ago . Chuck Jones would probably be proud . Dine on the 3-D if you can . Unlike most three-dimensional productions , the 3-D here enhances the story and the excellent animation but does n't overwhelm them . One of those equal-opportunity exercises that provides as much merriment for adults as for kids . 	Quirky humor , plucky characters and solid slapstick make this family comedy a frenetically tasty time at the movies .
1190296-zack and miri make a porno Americans should n't have to feel comfortable with the thought of kicking back and having a beer with their President , but it 's not a bad criterion for a comedy filmmaker , and Smith is that guy . The only 21st-century aspects of it are the unfunnily vulgar references to sexual and bodily functions along with several hundred uses of the F-word , which those who adore Russell Brand and Jonathan Ross may find a thousand times less wearisome than I did Ainda que Smith continue a exibir sua compulso em escrever dilogos que usam a escatologia e os palavres como forma barata ( e ineficaz ) de humor , o filme um grande avano em relao aos seus trs ltimos pssimos trabalhos . Zack and Miri gives the rom-com genre a much deserved spanking . The only problem is that hardcore action and a touchy-feely love story do not the best bed-fellows make and the final reel ill-advisedly juxtaposes an over-sweetened romance with a gross-out gag that will having you gulping for clean air . Kevin Smith has n't matured enough to actually make a good comedy , but he has accrued enough casting wisdom to elevate his latest homegrown material with the effervescent Seth Rogan and Elizabeth Banks . While I would n't call the role of cheery , foul-mouthed Miri nuanced , Banks and Rogen click in a way that Rogen and Katherine Heigl in Knocked Up did not . I wo n't spoil the twist by revealing it , though you may not want to spoil the film by sitting through it . My suggestion , not wholly frivolous : see the first hour , then go to the pub . At 38 , the grand old man of raunch talk has figured out how to make a movie that 's sweet , funny and ( a little ) sexy . The picture has a knockabout charm , thanks to the actors ; but its premise seems flawed . 	Zack and Miri Make a Porno is a modest success for Kevin Smith , due in large part to the charm of Seth Rogen and Elizabeth Banks .
babel The world-spanning story has intriguing elements ... But , the overall study falls short of the individual stories . Through it all is the motif of children at prey in a social order that 's ready to destroy them . Dark , sophisticated and challenging , this film is a stunning conclusion to Inarritu 's trilogy that began with Amores Perros and 21 Grams . Ambitious and absorbing for nearly all its 2 1/2-hour running time . An emotionally visceral and empathetic triumph . Irritu 's spiritual side combines with his insight into human nature to transcend the shakier elements . It may be too slow for some tastes , but Babel remains emotionally bruising but compulsive viewing . The problem with Babel is n't that it 's a bad movie . It 's a good movie , or , more accurately , it 's several pieces of good movie , chopped up in service of a pretentious , portentous and slightly silly artistic vision . I would be surprised if , after 140 minutes of grim punishment , any audience member could be truly moved by this everlasting symphony of pain . Long , belabored , terminally solemn despite some vigor , and numbingly sentimental under a tough surface , this is a serpentine coiling of three modestly connected and episodic stories . 	In Babel , there are no villains , only victims of fate and circumstance . Director Alejandro Gonzalez Iarritu weaves four of their woeful stories into this mature and multidimensional film .
1110236-wash So ramshackle it 's nearly enough to make you forget how tossed-together the 1976 Car Wash was . Weak , witless blend of Ice Cube 's Friday and Richard Pryors 's Car Wash . Two roommates start to antagonize each other after one becomes the other 's superior at an LA car wash , and the conflict is played out with grittiness and flippancy . There 's precious little to listen to , laugh at or ogle . The lame , underdeveloped jokes far outweigh the fresh ones , the women are all chirpy airheads , and the whole thing hangs on a feeble storyline . The Wash appears not to have much at all on its mind . If a white filmmaker were behind the wretched ugliness that is The Wash , he 'd be branded the most racist director since D.W. Griffith . It 's intermittently hilarious , though more of a drag . The Wash is Santo & Johnny through a swamp of mounting disinterest . A sloppy , harebrained movie , which looks like it was made on a fraction of the budget of one of their videos . 	Sloppily-made , amateurish , and scarce on laughs , The Wash ca n't compare to Richard Pryor 's 1976 Car Wash .
1007910-fright night Makes up for a dearth of scares with cheeky self-referentiality . Tom Holland 's directorial debut is a wildly entertaining concoction that perfectly blends horror and comedy . Roddy McDowall steals the show as TV horror host Peter Vincent . A minor classic of the genre , this is a memorable addition to the vampire tradition in the horror film . Its tone is never exactly comedic and its horrific touches are more disgusting than scary . A run-of-the mill vampire film buoyed by Sarandon 's tragic villain and McDowall 's wonderful would-be Van Helsing Underrated horror film is modern classic . For my money , Chris Sarandon makes the best vampire in movie history . Not just an eighties horror classic , but a horror masterpiece ... You 'll scream , You 'll laugh ... ..You 'll want to press rewind Neatly parodying Hitchcock and John Hughes movies , writer/director Tom Holland litters his rattling story with as many laughs as jolts . 	Fright Night deftly combines thrills and humor in this ghostly tale about a man living next to a vampire .
hitch Under- whelming , and predictable cookie cutter romantic comedy fluff ... With it 's share of Jerry Maguire moments mixed with real romance corn , Hitch is well worth the date . A full 120 minutes dedicated to the hilarious comic notion that white people ca n't dance ( hee , hee - it 's funny because it 's true , we 're so lame ! ) Does a fine job of staying away from an overage of boredom and sentimentality while providing a good mix of laughter along the way . Will Smith can play a matchmaker , too ! Proves how the occasional TV actor ( or two ) can , indeed , make a smooth transition to motion pictures . Hitch will make dorky , husky guys like Kevin James and myself feel some hope that we too can date women who look like models Merely cute when it could be affecting , pleasant when it could be relevant . Agreeable if not exactly good . Say what you `` Will '' , but Mr. Smith is one entertaining guy 	Despite Hitch 's predictability , Will Smith and Kevin James win praise for their solid , warmhearted performances .
1021112-texas chainsaw massacre Best for older teens and adults only . It is not that the movie is particularly graphic , with very little blood actually being spilled on screen . Rather , it 's a very disturbing film . The violence is outdated by today 's standards , but the original Chainsaw still packs a punch with its rough look and disturbing overtones . Seeing this again recently has convinced me that it 's quite a bit better than I initially judged . Chainsaw-wielding Leatherface remains one of the most disturbing characters in horror . One of the key films of modern horror . Few films so truly disturbing ever had such a grip on the popular imagination . The Texas Chain Saw Massacre loses none of its intensity as the years go by . This film possesses more true scares than the entire 'Horror ' section of your local videostore , or a week of Oprah re-runs . The documentary-style approach is what pushes this flick over the top ; it 's a grim and glorious classic of modern horror . 	Thanks to a smart script and documentary-style camerawork , The Texas Chainsaw Massacre achieves start-to-finish suspense , making it a classic in low-budget exploitation cinema .
airplane More laughs per minute than just about anything I can think of . The gags are n't exactly clever , but there are a lot of them , and the cutting finds a fast , effective tempo . Rapid-fire spoof with sexual jokes and cartoon violence . One of the finest American comedies ever made . Ever ! A hyper spoof of disaster films . Surely as good as modern comedy gets ? ... and do n't call me Shirley . If you get half of the jokes flung your way , and laugh at half of those you 're still in much better shape than the very best episode of Three 's Company . How can you go wrong with a film that features Leave it to Beaver 's Barbara Billingsly as a jive-talking passenger ? Entering imto Mel Brooks ' turf , the first lampoon of the disaster-in-the-air subgenre ( such as the prepoterously Oscar nominated Airport ) is silly but funny , with many good sight gags , campy one-liners and slapstick comedy . Most of the jokes are groan-worthy , and some are downright racist . 	Though unabashedly juvenile and silly , Airplane ! is nevertheless an uproarious spoof comedy full of quotable lines and slapstick gags that endure to this day .
dragonslayer Mr. Robbins 's overall accomplishment is one of creating a mood , and he does this well enough to make up for the film 's occasional cumbersomeness . The film excels as a visual exercise , as a study in adolescent psychology , and even as astute political analysis . A well intentioned fantasy with some wonderful special effects , Dragonslayer falls somewhat short on continuously intriguing adventure . This film has smoky atmosphere , medieval sets , and rugged terrain strange enough to suggest far-off mythic lands ; moreover , its special effects are positively staggering . Let 's face it -- nothing short of a gorilla suit can make Peter MacNicol not look like a weenie . While on the surface Dragonslayer is an old-fashioned fantasy yarn , it functions also as an interesting political allegory about the nature of sacrifice and what is ultimately best for the populace . Vintage fantasy epic is great , despite a too-graphic death . Looked far better when released due to tech aspects . Admirably dark fantasy adventure ... especially considering it was a Disney ! Verges on the nasty for the nippers ; sails close to dj vu for fantasy fans ; fated , probably , to damnation by faint praise . 	An atypically dark Disney adventure , Dragonslayer puts a realistic spin -- and some impressive special effects -- on a familiar tale .
civil action Millions of people read Harr 's gripping bestseller , but Steven Zaillian may be the only one who did n't understand it . Nearly bloodless and somewhat dull , despite the fact that the story seems tailor-made for the big-screen , and that it has a talented supporting cast . The film is so daring because it features a protagonist that we can not and do not sympathize with . the film is slightly overlong and the ending is anti-cathartic . It runs out of gas when it runs out of things to tell us , since it lacks characters to engage us . Real law makes the appeal of John Grisham-esque courtroom melodrama make a lot more sense . This is a case in which the material really is better served in book form . The performances are solid and Oscar-worthy . Deserves to be set apart from the parade of legal thrillers , John Grisham adaptations et . al. , that Hollywood regularly cranks out for our consumption . My only real problem is with the script . The film begins to lean a little too heavily on melodrama , repeating select flashbacks ... 	Intelligent and unconventional .
blackfish 2013 likely to never again buy a ticket to a marine theme park again The movie recounts - often with horrifying video - several instances in which trainers are mauled , chomped and otherwise clobbered by killer whales . An absolutely heartbreaking documentary ... Taken in sum , Blackfish is a punishing indictment of a multi-million dollar industry and one of the finest documentaries of the year . You 'll never look at Shamu , and the company that exploits him , the same way again . An acclaimed and chastening documentary about what happens to human beings - injury , mutilation , death - when they pen orcas in sea parks . If you 're an animal welfare person ( as we all should be ) , this film will get your dander rising . Blackfish is what happens when human arrogance trumps harsh natural reality . To analyze real-life tragedy we must understand it so we can prevent it , Cowperthwaite justly argues . Not so we can sigh and hope it does n't happen again . If you 're not moved and angered by what you see in Blackfish , your heart is made of harder stuff than mine . 	Blackfish is an aggressive , impassioned documentary that will change the way you look at performance killer whales .
stir of echoes Second-time director David Koepp steers clear of silly pyrotechnics and empty show as he anchors his supernatural thriller in Tom 's daily rituals , employing the racket of city life and intelligent sound edits to crank up the tension . The kind of film that may give you pause the next time you walk into a dark room by yourself . Stir Of Echoes is an okay psychological thriller , but it plays like a poor man 's Sixth Sense . There is a definitive moment at which the movie self-destructs , and its sad to see that happen when Echoes was shaping up to be an intensely powerful film . Kevin Bacon stars in one of his best performances ! Stir of Echoes is scarier and more graphic than The Sixth Sense . It 's nice to see he relied on more than heavy-handed filmmaking and a twist ending . I just hope audiences go for a supernatural thriller that 's a little messier and does n't feel the need to claw at their heart for two hours . [ A ] serious , atmospheric , character-driven supernatural drama . A disappointingly ordinary film . An ungainly ghostly potboiler that digs furiously away in the same thematic graveyard as this summer 's most revelatory sleeper hit , but does n't unearth anything that 's worthy of attention . 	Kevin Bacon 's acting is so genuine that it 's creepy and director David Keopp knows how to create true suspense .
5050 2011 A funny , thoughtful film , less about surviving cancer than about the agonizing process of growing up . Gordon-Levitt capitalizes on the best role of his career , one that justifies a potential Oscar nomination . 50/50 mostly succeeds as a movie about a young man fighting cancer that does n't give in to sap or sentiment . `` 50/50 '' is an unusual comedy that should be taken seriously . A tremendously endearing , emotionally complex motion picture that gracefully inspects the stages of grief , worry , and , of course , catharsis , approaching a delicate subject matter with a disarming confidence . Unsentimental , smart and funny , this dramatic comedy is the best film about illness I 've ever seen . Reiser has written his characters with an indelible sweetness and vulnerability , which allows the cast to deliver performances with some depth . As Adam in 50/50 , Gordon-Levitt is low-key , but very human . His expressive face shines and darkens . Director Jonathan Levine brings him back to simple , expressive humanity . Builds to the confidently sincere movie you hoped it would be , after dithering around in tired cutesiness . ... delivers some hard-core truths as well as therapeutic humor while treating more than one kind of death . 	A good-hearted film about a difficult topic , 50/50 maneuvers between jokes and drama with surprising finesse .
tell them who you are A lively , often hilarious yet profoundly moving experience . A vivid picture of a relationship that , like most , is n't quite picture-perfect . What makes this movie deeply fascinating is the fight Haskell wages . As the semi-willing subject of this movie , he 's determined to gain the upper hand or , at least , come out somewhat sympathetic . Not just a behind-the-scenes history chapter but an insightful father-son comedy-drama . Beneath its exploration of fatherly distance , this is really a portrait of why cranks make better artists than earnest nice guys . A fascinating glimpse of family love and rivalry , if not a deep-digging documentary . What emerges is not so much a career biography of the talented DP for Who 's Afraid of Virginia Woolf ? , Coming Home and a number of John Sayles films . A stunning personal document -- funny , touching , vital . An opportunity missed Mark Wexler 's film is the latest success in the blooming genre of therapeutic , first-person , digital essay films exploring the filmmaker 's personal life . 	The dysfunctional interaction between director and subject is fascinating , poignant , and revealing of both men and of father-son relationships in general .
star trek insurrection The problem with Insurrection [ is n't ] that it 's like a two-part episode . The problem is that it 's like a one-part episode that was more than doubled in length without having nearly enough drama . Nothing more than a glorified episode . The latest and ninth installment in that line , Star Trek : Insurrection , lacks the adrenalized oomph of its predecessor , but no adventure of the Starship Enterprise is without its gee-whiz affability . It just is not sufficiently involving . Lurches clumsily between drama , hammy comedy , and moral lecturing Like all recipes with too much of this and too little of that , this movie is n't so much bad , as it 's just weak in places . There are some nice moments early on . The story has enough plot switchbacks , space battles and gizmo wizardry to ensure that most viewers wo n't forget the film until at least the next morning . Does n't exactly boldly go where no one has gone before . There are other good reasons to see this particular film , including some sharply-staged action sequences and plenty of belly laughs . 	Although not terrible , the sluggishly paced Insurrection plays like an extended episode of the TV series .
harry potter and the goblet of fire Newell 's film , unlike its predecessors , fails to generate fresh wonder ... but on balance Rowling 's creative opus -- roiling with hormonal consequences and eye-popping effects -- continues to earn its crowds . [ Blu-ray ] It 's always a treat to see what big-studio-franchise cash can produce in the way of top-flight British ( and Irish ) actors . The action in Goblet of Fire is more exciting and faster-paced than in previous Potter films , and visually , it is by far the most splendid . It 's scarier than the previous three movies and more poignant . The series is now being treated as it should be , with the right mix of magic , danger , and drama , without watering anything down just so a younger audience can be snagged . This edition advances the Potter saga through the presentation of a variety of set pieces , some quite spectacular . And if the movie sometimes loses momentum , it contains enough grand sights and magical mayhem to stir even skeptical imaginations . Much of the credit goes to Radcliffe and his co-stars , who have become better actors with each film . They have become increasingly adept at conveying great emotion as each film demands more of them . A film with such fiercely written source material , the best effects money can buy , and the support of J.K. Rowling , ca n't be bad . It boasts some strong performances . Irish character actor Brendan Gleeson steals the show as the appropriately named Alastor 'Mad-Eye ' Moody , and the three young leads show increasing confidence in front of the camera ( especially Grint ) . Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire is an endurance test for its audience . 	The main characters are maturing , and the filmmakers are likewise improving on their craft ; vibrant special effects and assured performances add up to what is the most complex yet of the Harry Potter films .
spirit stallion of the cimarron A stirring family film that salutes the joys of freedom and the bounties of an untamed spirit . ... its solemn pretension prevents us from sharing the awe in which it holds itself . The animation is breathtakingly beautiful , and the story is n't bad at all . But the film is so infused with its own self-importance that it will annoy adults immediately . The animation merely serves up a predictable , maudlin story that swipes heavily from Bambi and The Lion King , yet lacks the emotional resonance of either of those movies . Unfortunately forgettable and particularly typical . A robust adventure story , unlike any we 've seen told before by Hollywood animators . Spirit : Stallion Of the Cimmaron , which and is technically Dreamworks ' first animated film since the monster CGI hit Shrek , as a hand-drawn film has quite a bit to live up to , but succeeds admirably at finding the heart that is often missing from technica What saves the movie is the truly dazzling animation . The film is an enjoyable family film -- pretty much aimed at any youngster who loves horses . A ripping yarn with memorable characters . 	A visually stunning film that may be too predictable and politically correct for adults , but should serve children well .
without a paddle It 's like The Goonies on acid . 'Una de esas pelculas intrascendentes , de las que da lo mismo que existan o no ' Director Brill makes no stylistic advances from his recent work with Adam Sandler , and shows no signs of seeking growth or improvement . Buddy wilderness adventure comedy has a big heart , even if it 's a been-there , done-that comedy . Without has all the freshness of moldering Playboys stashed under a mattress , but it evokes what few boys-will-be-boys larks can : chumminess . Gets into the male bonding mode with a casual , instinctive flair that breathes more life into the Steven Brill comedy than it may actually merit . At least Harold and Kumar were stoned ( and funny ) . When characters are this stupid in a movie , they deserve to be eaten by a bear . The only thing that 's remotely impressive about this waste of 99 minutes is that it somehow took five writers to put it together , proving that too many cooks spoil the s'mores A sloppy , lowest common denominator comedy The inconsistency in tone leaves Without a Paddle up a certain unnamed creek . 	Without a Paddle has a few laughs , but not enough to sustain its running time .
to catch a thief Francie finds something inauthentic in Robie : `` like an American in an English movie '' . Well , yes , perhaps . But Grant 's debonair and oddly unlocatable mid-Atlantic identity is absolutely right for the part . Prototypical Hitchcockian tale of stylish intrigue and intensity highlighted by the dashing dimension of the Grant/Kelly collaboration . A classic cat-and-mouse romance caper that impeccably flourishes Hitchcock and screenwriter John Michael Hayes posited voyeuristic spectacle as the essence of cinema in Rear Window ; in To Catch a Thief they validate their thesis with plenty of spectacle to be voyeuristic over . Alfred Hitchcock 's fluffy 1955 exercise in light comedy , minimal mystery , and good-natured eroticism ( the fireworks scene is a classic ) . A collection of VistaVision postcards . To Catch A Thief ( 1955 ) is a Hitchcock-directed , lush , entertaining comedy/thriller concerning jewel heists on the French Riviera . Although the polished caper film Hitchcock at his slick , glossy entertainment best . It 's one of Hitchcock 's lightest and most purely enjoyable exercises . Worth a peek . Fluff , but made of spun gold , with Grant and Kelly at their glittering best . 	It may occasionally be guilty of coasting on pure charm , but To Catch a Thief has it in spades -- as well as a pair of perfectly matched stars in Cary Grant and Grace Kelly .
indiana jones and the kingdom of the crystal skull Is the whole thing preposterous ? Yes . Is it a bit familiar and predictable ? Possibly . Is it corny ? OK , yes , a little bit . But again , it 's fun and does n't require too much thought . Nearly two decades after the last appearance , Indiana Jones is back , along with its diminishing returns and its aging principals and their trademark tools . Grab your popcorn and cue the theme music , this is gon na be a fun ride . It 's crammed full of the dash , filmmaking flair , swashbuckling magic , impossible stunts and tongue-in-cheek humor that made the series such a phenomenon of its time . Fourth Indy is n't perfect , but it 's fun for series fans . [ Speilberg ] is no longer a young director , and nowhere is that more apparent than in his approach to this Indy . An amusement park ride . Kind of fun , but we know there 's no real danger . The film never has an edge ( save for a great hotrod scene ) . It 's not a perfect movie , but it 's an Indiana Jones movie . A colossal disappointment by any measure , this latest Indiana Jones film focuses in on the character weaknesses of its creators George Lucas and Steven Spielberg . A rollicking class reunion that stands as the second best entry in the venerable series . 	Though the plot elements are certainly familiar , Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull still delivers the thrills and Harrison Ford 's return in the title role is more than welcome .
ran A stunningly beautiful epic . It 's a clean , pure 160 minutes of film and a masterpiece . There 's probably more carnage in Ran than there is in Rambo and The Terminator combined , but the new film substitutes intelligence and emotion for mindlessness and emotionalism . You leave the theater awestruck , not dumbstruck . An achievement of visual and thematic grandeur . It is a film that already belongs to the ages . Ran is a visually stunning epic , containing some of the most beautiful , colorful , breathtaking imagery ever committed to celluloid . Ultimately it is this mixture of the grand gesture and the fine touch , the big world and the small people who occupy it , that lingers with us long after Ran is over . Kurosawa 's reworking of Shakespeare 's `` King Lear '' is an engrossing film that has offers jaw dropping spectacle and genunie dramatic muscle . Nobody can film an epic battle scene like Kurosawa . A film of the sort of grandeur that brings to mind Griffith 's Birth of a Nation , Napoleon Vu par Abel Gance and Eisenstein 's Ivan the Terrible . 	Akira Kurosawa 's sprawling , epic take on King Lear should be required viewing for fans of westerns , war movies , or period films in general .
childs pose In the movie world , most national new waves do n't last long . An exception is the Romanian renaissance , which has featured first-class movies now for more than a decade . While lacking the elegant formal conviction of the best Romanian New Wave films , Calin Peter Netzer 's Child 's Pose is nevertheless a work of sophisticated and affecting storytelling , persuasively enmeshing the fate of individuals with that of society . In some ways she may be a monster , but Netzer and co-writer Radulescu find a path for Cornelia that steers clear of outright condemnation . Her tragic devotion to her son is so absolute that she retains our pity . What is a definition of good Romanian cinema ? Answer : Calin Peter Netzer 's Child 's Pose . While some of the details are a little heavy-handed , witty touches and rippingly honest acting hold our attention . As does the unusually intimate , urgent filmmaking . Compelling Romanian drama with a strong script and a stand-out central performance from Luminita Gheorghiu , though the film lacks subtlety in the hammering home of its central theme . [ T ] hrough it all , [ Luminita ] Gheorghiu finds the perfect pitch between a mother 's love for her child and a kind of pathology . In our society which prizes families above all else ( especially that mythical and coveted species , the `` decent , hard-working '' sort ) , it is encouraging to find a film that interrogates the pernicious influence that family life can sometimes exert . Plays its thematic cards far too early , but it 's sustained by Gheorghiu 's compelling central turn as the endlessly self-deluding grande dame . A series of small scenes imbued with great significance make for a quietly riveting drama that repays multiple viewings . 	It is n't necessarily an easy watch , but thanks to Netzer 's interesting direction and a riveting performance from Gheorghiu , Child 's Pose is rewarding .
longest yard When The Longest Yard is about football , it 's not too bad . Unfortunately , the rest of the movie is . If you like Adam Sandler , goofy comedy and football , I suggest seeing The Waterboy instead . Yeah , who needs talented actors like Burt Reynolds , Bill Fichtner , and James Cromwell when you can just hit someone in the crotch for 105 minutes ? The violent nature of the penal system is presented in such a cartoonish fashion that when the movie suddenly veers into reality , it is an awkward transition . Just because The Longest Yard is sporadically entertaining does n't mean it 's any good . See it if you think Adam Sandler is Joe Montana . See it if you like men in team-issued tight pants . See it if you like men in prison-issue tight pants . [ A ] repulsive celebration of everything that 's sickening and ugly and hideous about America today . '' The cartoonish way in which the characters are played drains the film of any grittiness the setting is supposed to provide . A project devoted entirely to laughs , and money . A major summer movie fumble ... it 's mostly the audience that gets sacked . 	This Yard has some laughs but missing from this remake is the edginess of the original .
silver linings playbook A hugely enjoyable , warm-hearted romantic comedy-drama with a refreshing honesty towards its subject matter and a pair of terrific performances from Bradley Cooper and Jennifer Lawrence . Because of Lawrence , I just ca n't write off this movie . Loaded with pleasant surprises , this adaptation of Matthew Quick 's novel combines romantic comedy , dysfunctional family woes and a sense of danger without ever losing its way . Manic as it might be stylistically , emotionally Silver Linings Playbook maintains too even of a keel . Speaking of Oscars , the great DeNiro is great once again here . For a movie that seems at times to have no idea what it 's trying to do , `` Silver Linings Playbook '' is compulsively watchable . In a script that never lapses into mundane or uninteresting language , the scenes between Pat and Tiffany are sculpted with an almost David Mamet-like sharpness . Cooper and Lawrence radiate off each other as they run both physically and mentally away from ( and towards ) each other . Silver Linings Playbook is , like its protagonist , hopelessly optimistic ... and it 's a sign of the film 's potency that we buy into it with our own sense of hopefulness . Silver Linings Playbook is the sort of feel-good claptrap that normally irritates me , but Russell plays it with the pitch and verve of a classic screwball comedy . 	Silver Linings Playbook walks a tricky thematic tightrope , but David O. Russell 's sensitive direction and some sharp work from a talented cast gives it true balance .
black nativity To call it preachy is n't necessarily a critique ; the entire film is essentially built around a closing sermon . Black Nativity is an earnest slice of uplifting holiday drama that benefits from a smartly chosen cast . You 'd have to be pretty full of seasonal humbug to resist this ... Hudson 's singing and Whitaker 's acting compensate somewhat , but for a truly inventive and uplifting African-American piece set in New York during the Yuletide season , skip Black Nativity and watch Run-DMC 's `` Christmas in Hollis '' music video instead . It 's a sweet-natured tale that goes down smoothly , and Lemmons ( `` Eve 's Bayou '' ) has done an admirable job of putting a contemporary spin on the beloved Hughes seasonal favorite from the '60s . Lemmons ' refusal to go for cheap laughs and easy uplift places her at odds with the cliched and predictable aspects of her own screenplay . The movie overall is earnest and respectful but unexciting Almost every beat of Langston 's tale , with its absent father figures and heated gun-pointing melodrama , rings false-hardly a fitting contemporary complement to the Greatest Story Ever Told . Jennifer Hudson sings like an angel but the movie is not up to that level storywise . Writer/director Kasi Lemmons ... wants to use Hughes to reflect on the modern day black experience , and do without the need to make it palatable for white audiences . The melding of a modern family saga with the Nativity is too awkward and hectic to let audiences sit back and appreciate some powerhouse singers and music . 	It 's sweetly amiable and solidly performed , but Black Nativity suffers from director Kasi Lemmons ' heavy-handed treatment of its celebrated source material .
them 2007 The fright is crafted well enough , but the twist at the end calls for more originality than filmmakers David Moreau and Xavier Palud wield . A disturbing DV-shot horror thriller . 77 minutes of gloriously sustained tension . Claustrophobic and exhausting , Them fumbles its payoff but reminds us why French chillers are a rare but thrilling treat . ... a sporadically affecting yet undeniably uneven exercise in horror . It should scare up a bit of boxoffice as it does hearken back to the day when horror meant the imagination gone wild rather than severed body parts . Otherwise , the film is all too pointless . Moreau and Palud play on the way our minds fill in the gaps of the unknown and the very primal fear of things going bump in the night . Suspenseful , eventually , but the first half 's a snooze . There is absolutely no fat on this brief , 74-minute film , but even as you get caught up in the suspense you come to realize that there is n't much meat on it , either . There are moments in Them that are as powerful as anything in the genre in the last few years . 	Suspenseful and tense from start to finish , the French horror film Them proves that a lack of gore does n't mean a dearth of scares .
devil in a blue dress The question is not whether the movie will succeed , but whether its success will give TriStar a new film franchise . A very complex and engrossing mystery , filled with wonderful period details . While Devil in a Blue Dress never develops the taut momentum of Franklin 's previous effort , One False Move , it maintains audience involvement . Carl Franklin 's unusually creative studio movie , boasting superlative acting from Denzel Washington and particularly newcomer Don Cheadle , reinvents a genre and a bygone era , in this case , Los Angeles circa 1948 . Franklin 's picture is effortlessly wise beneath its entertaining surface . The fascinating bits of racial history that director Carl Franklin has folded into the vibrant milieu of a post-World War II Los Angeles pushes his Devil in a Blue Dress somewhat beyond the usual nostalgia/noir status . From the smoky nightclubs to the golden-hued streets , there is a true sense of time and place that permeates this film . The role of Easy looks as tailor-made for Mr. Washington as his suit , and it shows off the full effect of this actor 's movie-star dazzle . Monstrously funny and truly scary , Cheadle is handed a scene-stealing role and never hesitates to do it justice . While mixing in ample amounts of urban black culture , Washington shows a flair for the traditional '40s detective . 	Humor , interesting characters , and attention to details make the stylish Devil in a Blue Dress an above average noir .
freedom writers This is moving stuff , thoughtfully handled and well performed . Engaging but clichd inspirational drama set during the time of the 1992 race riots in Los Angeles . On some level , just about any movie featuring never-say-die teachers is effective . The movie benefits from an interesting subject and good acting , I just wish it were more focused and deep . At a time when New Year 's resolutions to change already are falling by the wayside , you ca n't help but be moved by a group of young people who followed through on their resolve . At once heartfelt , absorbing , and dopey . Sure , we 've been here and seen all of this before . But when it 's this well done , we thoroughly enjoy seeing it again . Freedom Writers , which has a lot to say about education and the flaws in the American public-school system , gets high marks -- for effort and for merit . A white teacher takes on a classroom full of nonwhite kids in Freedom Writers and proves that old adage : The perkier they are , the harder they fall . It does n't have a catchy hit tune sung by Lulu , but Hillary Swank does a nice take on a dedicated teacher ala To Sir With Love in the engaging Freedom Writers . It would be easy to write off Freedom Writers as another inspirational teacher movie , not to mention one in which the white character saves the minorities , but to do so would be unfair . 	Freedom Writers is a frank , formulaic entry in the inspirational inner-city teacher genre , with an energetic Hilary Swank leading the appealing cast of unknowns .
chiavi di casa Radiates a warm humanity and uplifts the spirit . The kind of quietly unassuming tear-jerker that works its way into your heart despite the occasional cries of protest emanating from your head . Amelio tells the story with a silent stillness that belies the intense emotions that churn under the surface . A film of quiet , understated power and authentic grace . Subtle yet powerfully subversive look into the emotional toll and confusion of dealing with a disabled child . Those who find this kind of material weepy are advised to give it a pass . Amelio intelligently steers clear of lachrymose speeches , swelling orchestral music , and cheap redemption and instead probes away at the ambivalent feelings of parents towards their handicapped off-spring . It takes a story that could be turned into the most florid kind of tear-jerker and instead tells it with an exactness and a restraint that makes it powerfully effective . This compelling Italian drama will have you weeping before the credits roll . A film that treats a difficult subject with the delicacy of real art . 	Favoring subtlety over cheap sentimentality , The Keys to the House is emotionally honest , compassionate , and a genuine tear-jerker .
ella enchanted This all makes for good and entertaining fun , from the musical numbers of 1980s pop tunes to the flamboyant fight scenes . For a while . But you 've seen this all before . Nothing un-beguiles a fairy tale more than forced whimsy and labored magic . Anne Hathaway is charming and magnetic , but her journey across fairyland is laughable , a series of co-incidences and instantaneous edits . Barely an original moment . It 's an interesting mix , entertaining and yet so light and familiar that the film seems more of a knockoff than an original . Hathaway is gorgeous and goofy ( in a young Julia Roberts way ) , but the film does n't know if it wants to be postmodern cool or silly fun . Ella would be a lot more enchanting if it were n't such a pandering piece of product . ... there 's an unabashed charm in Hathaway 's sweet and spunky performance and a rejuvenating energy unleashed in a pair of bright musical numbers . Endearing , enduring , with just a few bits of crude humor There 's enough attitude here to keep the audience laughing , even when the film tips into stupid spoofery . 	Hathaway is a charming heroine , but the simple storyline gets overwhelmed by silly gimmickry .
the-endurance Much of the power of `` The Endurance '' derives from the artistic images captured during the voyage by pioneer Australian documentary photographer Frank Hurley ( 1885-1962 ) . Sure , the end is a foregone conclusion ( it 's in the history books , kids ) , but the unfolding events are a class-A story of survival , and will keep even the most well-informed viewers glued to their seats . A testimony to the triumph of the human spirit , and a reminder that , under the right leadership , humankind is capable of virtually anything . This wonderful documentary benefits from the inclusion of unique archival footage that was filmed during the two-year journey . Sinks under the weight of too many details . Although the juxtaposition [ of old and present-day footage ] is jarring at first , the tale is so compelling that the film soon takes on a seamless quality . The film captures superbly the agony of waiting . Butler reaches too hard for profundity and misses the old-fashioned adventure yarn at his story 's core . Unless you are a penguin or a seal , you are likely to find something dramatic in this testament to our survivability . Essential viewing not just for those fascinated by adventure , exploration and survival , but for anyone interested in the magic of leadership . 	The Endurance presents exciting footage of an amazing real-life story of survival .
river runs through it What compels Robert Redford to make movies from seemingly impossible subject matter ? ... Whatever the motivation , we are the richer for his labors . Director Redford also addresses the theme of loving families who do not communicate pain well . This has the feel of something genuine : sweet , touching , and sentimental . Disappointing drama . Some moving moments while fly fishing , but a senseless tear-jerker end just seems desperate . It 's pleasant and inoffensive in the nicest possible manner . A specialist in bringing books to life as movies , Redford has a knack for finding what matters in the text and making sure it ends up on screen . Here are two things I never thought I 'd say : I like a movie about fly fishing , and Robert Redford has directed one of the most ambitious , accomplished films of the year . Even set against the Sierra Club beauty of Redford 's Montana , it 's hard to get excited by fisherman casting their lines into the water . There is too much taste , discretion and detachment in Redford 's rendition of MacLean 's sprawling family saga , but the scenery and Brad Pitt are nice to look at due to Philippe Rousselot 's gorgeous Oscar-winning cinematography . In its determination to emphasize character and thoughtful content over formulas and facile sensationalism , it 's a movie that 's proudly out of step with Hollywood trends . 	Tasteful to a fault , this period drama combines a talented cast ( including a young Brad Pitt ) with some stately , beautifully filmed work from director Robert Redford .
candyman Serious , straightforward cinematic terror is always hard to come by , but this literate shocker ranks among the best horror movies of the '90s . One of the best sustained horror movies for some years . ... a handsome yet ineffective adaptation ... A very interesting , well made chiller . How does this guy choose his victims ? What is his modus operandi ? It 's all pretty random . Madsen is a much better actress than is usually found in such a role . However , if you do n't like splashes of blood or bees swarming out of bodies , you may want to think twice about this one . Sadly enough , with all the things Candyman has going for it , it turns out to be not much more enthralling than the last Freddy Kreuger slash-o-rama . A good , bloody horror film about urban legends from a Clive Barker story . I was never a big fan of this film . It has its moments , but it is n't worth sitting through 90 minutes to see them . A nicely gory urban legend thriller . 	Though it ultimately sacrifices some mystery in the name of gory thrills , Candyman is a nuanced , effectively chilling tale that benefits from an interesting premise and some fine performances .
killers 2010 full review at Movies for the Masses Everything has a thrown-together feel , as the characters are tossed from romcom situations to action set-pieces and back again with no thought to applying any sort of grace notes to ease the transition . Neither action nor romance , Killers will please all those who see it for Kutcher , disappoint those in search of a story . It 's trying to be funny and it 's trying to be cool but Killers does n't quite get there . Perhaps some future social scientist will explain why the traditional romantic comedy transformed during the first decade of the 21st century into the screwball action-comedy , in which bonds of love are strengthened by gunplay , car chases and explosions . A bloated mess that 's not remotely funny -- or suspenseful . Bland spy rom-com mines violence , stereotypes for laughs . Heigl and Kutcher 's romance has about as much crackle as a bowl of soggy Rice Bubbles . A fluffy but harmless action comedy . The script is ludicrously overcooked , with too much unnecessary exposition at the expense of laughs , while Heigl 's habitual decision to play each role as a nostril-flaring , wild-eyed , squealing shrew is growing tiresome . 	Dull , formulaic , and chemistry-free , Killers is an action/comedy that 's largely bereft of thrills or laughs .
the edukators Like its protagonists , it means well , but gets mixed up . Too easily . The degree to which one sympathizes with the movie 's protagonists may depend upon the age of the viewer Unless you 're the sort who has a Che Guevara T-shirt tucked away somewhere in your closet , the needlessly long The Edukators wears out its welcome . It 's as if the Symbionese Liberation Army had nabbed one of The Big Chill 's weekenders . Although The Edukators , directed by Hans Weingartner , is a German-language film , it is set in a global village where all politics are local . The shifting dynamics in the group keep the story interesting . The surprise ending is gimmicky , but the character study is consistently enthralling . The Edukators is educational-not intellectually , but emotionally . For a film that points out so much wrong with German society and shows such dubious , dangerous behavior , it leaves the audience with high spirits and a sense of crazy exhilaration . There 's an evenhanded humanism flowing through 'The Edukators that may strike doctrinaire viewers on either side of the divide as mushy , but it 's tough enough for the rest of us to chew on for a long time . With greater critical distance on the filmmaker 's part , and a disciplined use of the editing scissors , it might have been something substantial . 	The Edukators engagingly plays out the clash between youthful idealism and older pragmaticism .
the beauty academy of kabul 2006 Mermin achieves an easy intimacy with students and instructors alike . Surprisingly , The Beauty Academy of Kabul provides equal insight into both cultures , showing how excessive , self-obsessed disconnect can shape a culture as strongly as a hideously intruding reality . ... a light and lively fly-on-the-wall piece that is occasionally aware of its own absurdity ... Yes , ( Mid ) west is ( Mid ) west and ( Mid ) east is ( Mid ) east , but the twain do meet -- sort of -- in this fascinating , unassuming little film . A skin deep in beauty documentary with hairdressers as healers . a spiny , puzzling and highly entertaining film , and whatever you go into it thinking , you 're likely to come out thinking something else . It rather eloquently makes the case that individuals who have confidence and self-worth can build a country with confidence and self-worth . Mermin is quite skilled at separating the honorable intent of the school from dopey assumptions of several American beauticians . Beauty of the mind and body conspires to survive under the guns of UN troops guarding the fragile peace against the moonscape of war that is Kabul . Any film that raises this many interesting questions is worth seeing , though Beauty Academy never goes quite deep enough to become essential . 	There 's nothing frivolous about beauty school when hearing about the individual lives of these women in Afghanistan , and the contrast between them and the idealistic beauticians from America .
10011984-last song The Cyrus machinery repels any believable human connection onscreen , though she 's not helped much by Sparks and Van Wie 's script . Peddles banal truisms ( `` Love is fragile , and we 're not always the best caretakers ! '' ) as if they 're freshly minted . The kind of bathetic and overwrought melodrama that Sandra Dee might have rejected a half-century ago for being too schmaltzy for its own good . In addition to a knack for corny plot lines and montages of young people making out along the Southeastern coastline , Sparks has a sixth sense for making audiences cry . Fortunately , The Last Song mercifully avoids some of the clichs of its genre and will likely provide an unforgettably touching and wonderful film experience for the target teen girl audience that is bound to line up for it in droves . A dramatic showcase for a more grown-up Miley Cyrus , but not much more . It 's not a great film , with some edge Sparks put in the novel left out of the script . But there 's real chemistry between the young lovers . akin to reserving a table at a fancy restaurant so you can order oatmeal Cyrus has a likable , unforced screen presence but does not have the training or focus to show us any change more significant than the disappearance of the nose stud . It 's hard to believe this bland starlet is the same spunky kid who bounced through the Hannah Montana movie just last year , but it 's only fair to cut Cyrus some slack . 	As shamelessly manipulative as any Nicholas Sparks production , The Last Song is done no favors by its miscast and overmatched star , Miley Cyrus .
das boot Unmitigated brilliance . Every frame , every word , every 'ping ' is something that will burrow deep into your psyche . By far [ Petersen 's ] best film . One of the greatest war movies seen in the last twenty years . Brilliant , moving filmmaking like this deserves a place on your shelf . Das Boot is yet another moving testament to the wastefulness of battle . Set in a German U- boat during World War II , this claustrophobic suspense drama has n't a weak bolt anywhere . You 're drawn in powerfully as the crew members experience a psychologically maddening cycle of lull and storm . The execution is second to none ; taut , claustrophobic and overwhelming . It is unlike any other war film in that it confines the audience in a confined submarine where we digest the fear and panic of the human beings on screen . In short , `` Das Boot '' is a religious experience . One of the best war films ever . 	Taut , breathtakingly thrilling , and devastatingly intelligent , Das Boot is one of the greatest war films ever made .
1017699-robin hood Compared with modern Disney films , which are dominated by the self-absorption and eventual self-discovery of their main characters , Robin Hood offers surprisingly stark and interesting social questions . No one makes cultural appropriation as much fun as Walt Disney . Of all the Disney movies from the '70s , 'Robin Hood ' had perhaps the most potential , but suffers from a mild case of 'averageitis . ' Blatantly caters to a juvenile audience , without making even the slightest attempt to entertain the grown-ups unless it happens that they like Saturday morning cartoon-level hijinks . ... owes much of its charm to its precise anthropomorphization . Robin Hood might be something of a mess around the fringes , but there 's a kindness , joviality , and lovely sense of community ingrained in the picture that makes it irresistible . One of the worst animated films ever produced by Disney ... Not one of Disney 's better animated efforts ; it lacks the majesty of earlier works . Even at its best , Robin Hood is only mildly diverting . Robin Hood is one of the most lackadaisical Disney features of all . 	One of the weaker Disney adaptations , Robin Hood is cute and colorful but lacks the majesty and excitement of the studio 's earlier efforts .
pandorum An unusually unpleasant and unwatchable sci-fi endeavor ... As always , Foster sells the hell out of his role but non-sci-fi fans may well themselves be driven mad long before the end . A little bit 'Eden Log , ' a little bit 'Descent , ' and a whole lot of 'Alien , ' 'Pandorum ' ultimately succeeds as a watchable sci-fi/horror/mystery . Not without its scuzzy charms and eye-catching creature attacks , `` Pandorum '' generates all the stylish muster it can . Still , it feels like a Christopher Lambert film that would have gone straight to VHS about 15 years ago . Paul WS Anderson rains down another cinematic crapstorm with Pandorum , a confused , unfocused ( sometimes literally ) attempt to make an ideas-driven but mainstream sci-fi flick . Pandorum does n't make a whole lot of sense and is shot and edited in a way that only adds to the confusion . In space nobody can hear you scratching your head . Pandorum is less a story than a prolonged bout of paranoid hysterics , exuberantly played out on metal gangplanks and inside Stygian tunnels . As such , it works just fine . By the time one of the creatures tosses a character a pipe and they proceed to martial arts fight , it 's safe to presume that a shark has been jumped and there is no turning things around . `` Pandorum '' -- in which astronauts wake up , disoriented , in a craft that is terrorized by violent creatures -- is not original , but I figure any movie as icky as `` Pandorum '' is doing something right . Pandorum is neither schlocky enough to be an enjoyable genre flick , nor smart enough to provoke any original thoughts . 	While it might prove somewhat satisfying for devout sci-fi fans , Pandorum 's bloated , derivative plot ultimately leaves it drifting in space .
10006849-once in a lifetime A slick , gossipy documentary that pulses to the strains of James Brown , Parliament and the Love Unlimited Orchestra as it glosses over facts to make its questionable case for the Cosmos . Once in a Lifetime is like a soccer team that plays good defense but lacks offense . The movie is only so-so , borrowing a little from the VH-1 school of popumentary but lacking the snazzy production values . Packed with observations and recrimations , many of the latter aimed at or by Chinaglia , which makes for some gossipy entertainment . An energetic and often enjoyable documentary , particularly for soccer fans . If nothing else , the energetic documentary Once In A Lifetime proves that an audience once existed for soccer in this country , and could be cultivated again . It 's a rags-to-riches story that shows how American money and imagination revolutionized not just a team , but the entire sport of soccer , back then and still to this day . ... treats its audience like a bunch of attention deficit disorder cases . Well-researched and exuberantly compiled , this is a thoroughly entertaining tribute to America 's first tackle at surgically implanting the beautiful game . Full of drama and fascinating anecdotes . 	You do n't have to be a soccer fan to enjoy this stylish , breezy slice of 1970s sports history .
star trek v the final frontier The worst Star Trek movie . William Shatner 's inauspicious feature directing debut is a double letdown . absolutely terrible ... a vanity project for William Shatner The whole point of the movie has something to do with the search for God and Eden , but the theme is presented in the most mundane fashion imaginable . I liked what it seemed to me the film had said . As 1979 's The Motion Picture courted derision for its cerebral 2001 approach , The Final Frontier damages it 's own cause with a high-brow 'Man 's Search for God ' story . The plot , about a quest for the Ultimate Answer , resembles something Douglas Adams would have thrown in the bin . Although the film 's ontological approach may be intriguing , this rather dull entry fails to generate the kind of thoughtful , exciting adventure that made the Gene Roddenberry TV series so compelling . A science fiction thriller with the moral message that we should look for God within the human heart and appreciate the moral dimensions of friendship Proceed with caution . 	Filled with dull action sequences and an underdeveloped storyline , this fifth Trek movie is probably the worst of the series .
usual suspects The only usual thing about The Usual Suspects is the title . All else is a fun , fresh , gritty new take on something you thought was old and familiar . Next to the steady diet of Hollywood formula , contrived plots and situations a regular moviegoer can spot a mile off , The Usual Suspects is something quite different : A movie that 's smarter than you are . Give director Bryan Singer credit for providing a plot that is not resolved by an exchange of gunfire , but do n't expect the movie 's glib punchline to stay with you for very long . Certain 'big twists ' may have hogged the limelight of late , but rarely have they come 'bigger ' or better than in Bryan Singer 's glorious exercise in taut intrigue , dazzling plotting and criminal psychology . The Usual Suspects has always kind of sat there , hoping that you 'll love it for its twist ending . If the pleasures of The Usual Suspects are the more superficial ones of ingenuity and style , those are abundantly available . The twists and turns of the plot are an awful lot of fun , while the ending is genuinely satisfying and surprising . As entertainment , the film is a lukewarm experience . But as a piece of construction , The Usual Suspects is a slick bit of business . To many young film buffs , this is where film history begins and ends . But like a tale from the Arabian Nights , told for the sheer pleasure of storytelling , this elegant puzzle not only enjoys showing off , it also has something to show . The Usual Suspects loses some of its impact with subsequent viewings , but it remains a superior picture with much to enjoy beyond its unforgettable ending . 	Expertly shot and edited , The Usual Suspects gives the audience a simple plot and then piles on layers of deceit , twists , and violence before pulling out the rug from underneath .
1121649-anger management We 've seen him play this guy all too often . This is a hackneyed , sprawling mess of a comedy , rarely funny and never interesting . This brilliant ensemble of crazies is sure to make you bust a gut ! [ It 's ] like going to the NBA All-Star Game and seeing a fantastic team take the floor , but when the game begins you realize they left their brains in the locker room . [ Sandler and Nicholson ] are n't doing anything we have n't seen from them before , but it 's an undeniably fun movie . It 's the perfect mating of two of the screen 's best 'bad boys . ' Sandler is terrific , playing a potentially over-the-top part with an understatement that 's downright minimalist at times . ... the star power of the film is n't matched by the material , but it 's to the performers ' credit that the film is as consistently funny as it is . The promise of Anger Management lasts for all of about 15 minutes . Though Anger Management does have some amusing moments , it 's too undiscriminating and scattershot to be worth paying attention to . 	Thought not without its funny moments , Anger Management is ultimately stale and disappointingly one-note , especially considering its capable cast .
dust to glory The contest just does n't register that emotionally , with the long sermonizing stretches of the picture taking away from the real life of the Baja 1000 party : the race itself . As dull as dust for much of its look at the Baja 1000 . Using 90 cameras in a variety of formats , he captures the giddy danger of the race with truly visceral force . Director Dana Brown leaves his family 's fascination for surfing literally in the dust to explore the gritty off road race that may be the world 's toughest endurance sport Dana Brown 's documentaries crackle with passion . Dust To Glory is part of a new genre film - a type of mass marketing promotional documentary ... it 's better than most films like this . The swooping helicopter shots , the POV camerawork from the front seat of an 800 hp trophy-truck and the propulsive soundtrack will have your heart racing towards the finishing line along with the drivers . Aside from the lessened condescension in Brown 's voice-over narration , he 's still capable of envisioning a feature-length , theatrical-release doc as nothing more ( or less ) than a segment of ABC 's Wide World of Sports writ large . Although the film features some hair-raising footage and striking location photography , there 's far too much dust and not enough glory in Dust to Glory . The film may prove too nerve-racking for casual viewers . It is a racing movie for the inside track . 	Amazing footage from the Baja off-road race will give viewers an adrenaline rush .
deep sea 3d After being in something of a rut for a while , the IMAX 3-D format is back at the top of its game with this fascinating tour of the world 's oceans and the bizarre , alien-looking life forms found there . Clocking in at 39 minutes , which may be about all the eyes can handle , Deep Sea 3D transports exotic sea species literally to our noses . Deep Sea 3D does n't go any deeper than the ocean floor . . . but that 's pretty deep . Imax 3D underwater cinematography is so spectacular that it does n't matter how well the films are assembled . The movie has little new to offer to conservation . In sum : Many creatures are eaten , but this often-impressive movie left me hungry for more . Even though this film does provide some conventional thrills , what 's surprising is how intimate , and almost shiveringly sensitive , it makes the ocean seem The 3D images are crisp and engrossing . Let the field trips begin ! Fancy a spot of scuba diving ? Without getting wet ? And in the company of Johnny Depp and Kate Winslet ? 4 starsYou can just sink into `` Deep Sea 3D , '' a lovely , lush experience that , believe it or not , blends the grandeur of the deep with the violence of nature and the sad state in which humans have left the oceans . 	Viewers will welcome being whisked away to this magical world of exotic sea life .
robot and frank Offbeat sci-fi buddy movie is n't likely to attract teens . Frank Langella plays so many variations on cute and crotchety and with such suppleness - he 's by turns a charming codger , a silver fox and a wise graybeard - that his performance comes close to a saving grace . Frank Langella gives a master class in acting in a movie with bracing humor and a dash of heartbreak - just do n't expect to be wrapped up in a warm and fuzzy cinematic blanket . Human and artificial intelligence coexisting in the most meaningful way . Light-fingered and charming . Hodgepodge of moods built around an unlikely story of friendship between a man and his service robot , the film carries itself confidently , with occasional moments of significant emotion . Frank Langella gives a somber , bittersweet performance in director Jake Schreier 's odd but ingratiating drama . `` Robot & Frank '' is the sort of undernourished , underpopulated production that indie fans must all too frequently settle for . It 's a theatrical feature hell bent for home video . Frank Langella plays former cat burglar Frank and the 75-year-old actor holds the entire film together with his screen integrity . One of my favorite films from this year 's Sundance . Frank Langella deserves serious awards buzz . 	Led by a brilliant performance from star Frank Langella , Robot & Frank works as both a quirky indie drama and as a smart , thoughtful meditation on aging .
dungeons and dragons Alas , much of the dialogue is the silliest sort of fantasy mush , and a good deal of the picture appears to have been shot while the lighting guys were out to lunch . Looks cheesy much of the time and smells cheesy -- as in Limburger -- all of the time . Spends too much time being a game of Dungeons and Dragons instead of telling a story . For visual thrills and fairytale themes , this fantasy feature kicks the stuffing out of Star Wars . Where is the bubonic plague when you need it ? I wanted them all to die and the sooner , the better . The fight sequences are limp , the pace often drags , and the dramatic moments elicit more laughter than the comic ones . Solomon and his writers fail to establish any sense of time or place -- Jeremy Irons hams it up like Richard III on speed , while Marlon Wayans talks like he just came from a rap concert at the LA Forum . This is a movie of good guys overcoming hordes of indestructible soldiers or conquering devilishly murderous mazes , and then practically gloating with pride at the silliness of it all . If you do n't like the movie , it 's solely because you 're not a fan of this type of escapism . It could n't possibly be because the movie stinks . Well , this one does . This performance will haunt Irons for the rest of his career or put an abrupt end to it . 	Critics say this movie has a cheap look and is badly directed . Despite the presence of talented actors , the performances are really bad , and additionally , some people are offended at Marlon Wayans ' character , calling it a racist throwback to black stereotypes .
pay it forward The film boxes itself into a simplistic turn of phrase that grows quite annoying as time passes . Keeps zigging and zagging between plots and subplots that do n't really matter . This inspiring and imaginative film speaks directly to the greatest social problem and character disorder of our times - incivility . The film seems manufactured to furrow a cynic 's brow before bringing up their lunch . Worthwhile for the performances . `` Pay It Forward '' elicits more emotion than it deserves . Still , shedding a tear or two on account of the film is not an unreasonable request . Tissues or barf bag , take your pick . Personally , I was glad I grabbed a handful of concession napkins . Judging by the chorus of sniffles , I was n't alone . There is much to like in this film , not least of which is the positive message . Both affecting and effective . Worth going to see , mainly for Osment 's superb thespian abilities . 	Pay It Forward has strong performances from Spacey , Hunt , and Osment , but the movie itself is too emotionally manipulative and the ending is bad .
himalaya The film utilizes nonactors across the board , and they go about their business with the sort of confidence and ease that can only come after a lifetime in this terrain . Maybe with some big Hollywood stars the film would seem a bit trite , but , with these honest , straightforward actors , the story is completely engrossing . A film of unusual visual beauty and enormous intrinsic interest . The camera showcases the beauty of the Himalayas as well as telling a moving story of power , pride and cultural change . That these Tibetans can be so relaxed and natural in front of a camera , playing versions of themselves but not themselves , speaks well of the whole culture . The story here is kept pleasantly simple . Himalaya is a film about choices , pride and forgiveness , filled with memorable characters and stunning scenery . And if you like yaks , this is the film for you . A special film that opens your eyes to exotic people in another part of the world , then shows you that most of their concerns mirror our own . Lhondup is a study in grizzled wisdom , and thoroughly merits this fondly poetic tribute . Real people , facing real dilemmas , would have been more convincing than the contrivances of Himalaya . 	Unlike the overproduced and overbudgeted Hollywood blockbusters , Himalaya is a stunningly photographed movie that offers an intimate look into the lives of a Dolpo tribe .
appropriate behavior In its a-linear presentation of the story of Maxine and Shirin 's relationship , the film takes after Annie Hall , though we spend a fair portion of the film observing Shirin in the aftermath of that relationship 's demise . The movie does n't seem to be up to anything larger than an amiable slice of urban life , and it does n't need to be . Akhavan achieves a near-perfect blend of satirical jaundice and naked delight in all things bohemian . A true multicultural comedy , equally at home in its hipster Brooklyn and Iranian immigrant settings , taking a loving and scornful look at both . [ Akhavan is ] a whiz at writing characters whose life seems to extend beyond their brief screentime . For all its disorganization and lack of an ending or even a sense of direction , `` Appropriate Behavior '' is alive . `` Shirin 's pursuit of her true self is n't just a story we 've rarely , if ever , seen on film ; it 's the introduction of a hilarious and essential new voice . '' Tall , dark and drily funny . Funny , unique , and entirely inappropriate , Appropriate Behavior is a supremely satisfying and irreverent take on the New York rom-com . Funny and specific , it makes you eager to see what this filmmaker does next . 	Warm , funny , and quietly profound , Appropriate Behavior serves as a thoroughly compelling calling card for writer , director , and star Desiree Akhavan .
equilibrium Matrixian , Orwellian , and boneheadian . An entertaining but unspectacular film . Pretty goofy at times - but the slick and gleefully self-indulgent violence will not disappoint the action fan . You can practically hear George Orwell turning over . An unsophisticated sci-fi drama that takes itself all too seriously . The dumbest view of the future I 've seen ( and , reader , I survived John Travolta in Battlefield Earth ) . Giggling at the absurdities and inconsistencies is part of the fun . But the talented cast alone will keep you watching , as will the fight scenes . 50 % homage to the classic science fiction touchstones and 50 % damn solid in its own right . Borrows from so many literary and cinematic sources that this future world feels absolutely deja vu . A flaccid sci-fi opus slavishly modeled on 'Fahrenheit 451 ' ... flat and antiseptic . A moderately entertaining cautionary tale . 	Equilibrium is a reheated mishmash of other sci-fi movies .
inside job 2010 With Sherlock Holmes-like precision , Ferguson connects the dots between plans concocted by Wall Street 's Masters of the Universe , and the financial catastrophes that ensued as far away as Iceland . Inside Job is as much crisp , professional journalism as ballsy takedown , and the film 's two sides complement rather than detract from each other . Inside Job , which looks at the causes and consequences of the 2008 economic collapse , is truly terrifying cinema-viewing . It 's a fascinating but terrifying insight into a very murky world . Occasionally feels like a great courtroom drama ... [ Ferguson is ] a bold , relentless prosecutor . f you 've been affected by the bottom dropping out of the economy -- who has n't ? -- but did n't know where to target your disappointment , your frustration , your rage , Inside Job gives you the answer : You say Inside Job is a bit like a classroom documentary ? Its a class you need to take . Despite leaving you flailing at times with its sheer weight of detail , this superior documentary is packed to the gills with enraging , depressing answers as to what ignited the 2008 recession . This is a work of sustained , nonpartisan rage . Its anger is always simmering , never all-consuming . Ferguson knows what it is he wants to say , and the movie goes about its point-making with lawyerly precision . As gripping as any thriller 	Disheartening but essential viewing , Charles Ferguson 's documentary explores the 2008 Global Financial Crisis with exemplary rigor .
wackness A minor triumph . The Wackness , while no masterpiece , is the kind of film that does n't come to much but is watchable as it saunters along with a provoking sense of meaningful pessimism . The performances are really the thing - Levine has n't managed anything better . The film 's forlorn charm is a little reminiscent of Cameron Crowe 's adolescent memoir Almost Famous . It 's a tiny bit soppy , too , but you can forgive that in a teenager . It 's a reasonably promising debut , though , and Sir Ben looks as though he had a lot of fun , not least when he 's deflowering Mary-Kate Olsen , surprisingly funny as the planet 's last remaining hippy . When The Wackness is good , it 's good , and when it fails , it 's still clear what Levine was trying to do . Someday he 'll probably be able to do it . The Wackness is a moderately funny variant of the traditional coming-of-age saga . But it never creates characters likeable enough to care for . It 's an utterly routine picture , but its low-key mood and acting disarm I 'd stop short of calling Levine 's award-winning film pretentious . ... He just made a small coming-of-age film about the time he came of age , and he did it with just enough dopeness . Despite interesting performances by Kingsley , Thirlby and Mary-Kate Olsen as a flower child , Peck 's blandly apathetic air becomes contagious . If nothing else , it 's probably worth seeing for the kissing scene between Kingsley and Mary-Kate Olsen . 	Sympathetic characters and a clever script help The Wackness overcome a familiar plot to make for a charming coming-of-age comedy .
cairo time The at-times slow and indulgent pacing of Cairo Time will frustrate a few viewers , even if the Egyptian landmarks and scenery is stunning . Compared to other platonic film romances , this one comes up lacking , even with the note-perfect performances from Clarkson and Siddig . Clarkson , in one of her few leading roles , is the film 's bright spot and reason for seeing the film . It 's a haunting and hypnotic film . And Clarkson 's sublimely nuanced performance is in every way transporting . The breadth of emotions that play across Clarkson 's face are too delicate to engage after a whole lot of nothing . The stakes here remain so doggedly small-scale that they require a patience not everyone will muster ( though they should ) . The scenery is enchanting and it 's clear Nadda was inspired to make the film from the beauty of Cairo . She and cinematographer Luc Montpellier succeed in fashioning a graceful postcard to the city , but a story , too , would have been nice . A reflective , surprisingly subtle piece about character and about location , when I had expected either a completely anodyne travelogue or a dogmatic , 'Yes'-style disquisition . This is a poetic , romantic , emotionally complex film that sneaks up on you , particularly in its final scenes . If Cairo Time does not amount to much , it does evoke a wistful state of feeling and a complicated city with enough skill and sensitivity that you wish it had dared more . 	Though potentially too slowly paced for some , Cairo Time lingers long after the closing credits , largely due to a wonderful performance by Patricia Clarkson .
wag the dog Smart political satire from director Barry Levinson . Levinson has created a surprising quickie that satirically strikes out at our political system , the media ( easy target ) and the whole business of image versus reality . This film hits so close to home that it kind of scared me , making me realize that a lot of what I 've heard about politics may be as fabricated as the lies these characters make up . Strong performances abound in the film . Between the laughs , there are moments that ring so true they can raise goosebumps . A film that , for every scene of genuine hilarity , all too often just lies there smirking at itself about how darn clever it is . The pacing is crisp , the dialogue quippy and fast , the tone arch but energetic . Funny ? Very . Original ? Nah . Too glib to be a great political satire , but it 's a sign that Barry Levinson has n't lost his filmmaking skills . When the film makes the leap from plausibly outrageous to pure satire , it slips , and the logic goes with it . 	Smart , well-acted , and uncomfortably prescient political satire from director Barry Levinson and and all-star cast .
terms of endearment Glossy , funny , and packs a real emotional wallop . Brooks ' dialog is wonderful throughout and all the characters carry off their assignments beautifully , even down to Danny De Vito and Norman Bennett as MacLaine 's other suffering suitors . A cut above the typical chick flick , thanks to its heartfelt performances and genuine frankness . It takes all of perhaps five minutes to fall in love with the leading characters in Terms of Endearment and from that point on , the audience is just putty in the extremely capable hands of writer-director James L. Brooks . Blending comedy and melodrama , this is basically a TV sitcom , marked by a sentimental tone and traditional view of women . Shirley MacLaine and Debra Winger are fantastic as a mother and daughter who individually face life 's challenges and end up stronger because of it . You 'll feel like you 're eavesdropping . This hugely successful tear-jerker boasts some magnificent on-screen chemistry between Jack Nicholson and Shirley MacLaine . There 's no doubt in my mind that there is more art to be found in a week 's worth of General Hospital re-runs . Sad themes , but wonderful ensemble acting . 	A classic tearjerker , Terms of Endearment is n't shy about reaching for the heartstrings -- but is so well-acted and smartly scripted that it 's almost impossible to resist .
rock school So overpowering is Green 's outsized , needy , arrested-adolescent personality ( while you initially suspect he 's playing for the camera , the blas attitude of his students suggests he really is like this ) , it throws the movie off-balance . A reminder of every dedicated teacher who has turned a kid 's life around . Hilarious , inspired , frenzied . Green 's heart , if not his head , seems in the right place . He 's carrying the torch and holding it high , and his students seem to dig it . Succeeds as a riveting movie because it does n't try to lead us from verse to an obvious chorus about Green , or his uniquely abusive methods . Even with Paul Green 's invective echoing in the back of your mind , nothing 's quite so heartwarming as the sight of a young person blossoming . Bring back Jack Black and forget this . Rock School , for all its good intentions , can only manage an entertainingly superficial look at this institution and the man who keeps it going . A rousing , garage-band-style documentary . Crank it to 11 ! 	Boasting an entertaining and eccentric cast of characters , Rock School lives up to its name .
battle-los-angeles Battle : Los Angeles has really intense action scenes . And that 's it . Excitement ? Not so much . Imagine Black Hawk Down with ETs instead of Somalis and you 'll have the measure of an explosive if functional actioner that will do while we 're waiting for summer 's big guns to arrive . ... Battle Los Angeles fizzles out long before it reaches its tedious , anticlimactic finish . Disaster films will really get interesting when they start running out of iconic skylines to destroy . How about `` Battle : Wichita '' or `` Deep Impact : Albany '' ? Considering there are so many new ways to tell an alien-invasion story ( found footage , mockumentary , spoof ) , Battle : Los Angeles is almost defiantly old-fashioned . One does n't approach a movie like this expecting Shakespearean drama . Unlike some films with loftier ambitions , Battle Los Angeles pretty much delivers what it promises : H.G . Wells did it better . This movie spends so much yawn-inducing time on variations of the same combat scenario that its final showdown feels rushed . 'Battle : Los Angeles ' is nothing more than another fast paced , clichd action/ sci-fi film but visually splendid and enjoyable . It has shortcomings , but Battle : Los Angeles tries hard at being a serious alien invasion movie . Intense battle scenes & an old fashioned portrayal of the military might win audiences over . 	Overlong and overly burdened with war movie clichs , Battle : Los Angeles will entertain only the most ardent action junkies .
shoot em up There is not yet an expression to describe how over-the-top this hyperkinetic action comedy is , from its John Woo/Rube Goldberg inspired set pieces to its painful self-awareness of its own darned cleverness . Anyone looking for subtlety , character development or layered plotting will be disappointed , but action fans will find plenty to amuse them . The actors , unquestionably and predictably , are leagues better than the material deserves . Indeed , the entire movie can be seen to exist on the comic ultraviolence spectrum that began with Bugs and Elmer 's arms race from The Rabbit of Seville Thanks to its sneakily subversive tone ( the plot , with heavy irony , involves gun control ) and grandstand performances , the flashy result mostly hits the target . Ridiculously violent , comically bloody and so over-the-top that one can only view it as a cartoon that just so happens to be live-action . As for the says-it-all title , it is truth in advertising taken to the extreme . A film that would be odious were it not realised with such verve and gleeful , inventive 'Looney Tunes ' audacity , and only a trim 86 minutes long . A vulgar , smug and willfully stupid movie that 's both a lazy pseudo-parody of action films and a particularly egregious example of the genre itself . Say what you will about Bugs Bunny , at least he never needed a backstory . Loaded for fun , a trigger-happy full-frontal assualt on our senses that really seems to be winking at a whole macho-movie genre . 	As preposterous and over-the-top as Shoot 'Em Up may be , its humor and non-stop action make for a very enjoyable film .
charlie wilsons war The film itself may be uneven , but it 's worth catching for Hoffman alone who gets to deliver some of the funniest lines to grace a movie in years . ... sharp , smart and funny ... ... while movies can and do mark history , to a degree , they 're also entertainment , and `` Charlie Wilson 's War '' largely succeeds on that front . The history that 's here is worth knowing , and Hanks , Roberts , Hoffman and Nichols make those Beat-the-Russkies '80s seem like a party . With its rapid pace , smart screenplay , and top-notch acting , this is one of the 2007 Oscar season 's most appealing and compelling adult motion pictures . The big-screen Charlie Wilson 's War , clocking in at 93 fly-by minutes , is dark and funny and mean and sexy , damned near pitch-black-perfect considering that at the end of this boozy comedy you wind up with , oh , Osama bin Laden . Charlie Wilson 's War manages to be at once utterly irresponsible and mildly entertaining . It 's not a war movie but plays against a backdrop of war ; it 's not a comedy but has plenty of humour ; it 's not a romance romantic relationships matter ; it 's not a political story but everything is political . Another war film , with an exception , this one is Entertaining ! I applaud Aaron Sorkin ! ! ! Imagine getting a fascinating , if unsettling history lesson while watching a Judd Apatow comedy like 'Knocked Up , ' and that 's how 'Charlie Wilson 's War ' unfolds . 	Charlie Wilson 's War manages to entertain and inform audiences , thanks to its witty script and talented cast of power players .
surfs up The abundance of schmaltz that plagued Happy Feet is thankfully missing here , though the movie does make sure to shoehorn in the obligatory flatulence gags . It 's cool , man . But do n't be surprised if you wish it was funnier , dude . If its tale of a teenage penguin who follows his dream of becoming a great surfing champion were n't tired enough , Surf 's Up compounds its lack of inventiveness by styling itself as a 'mockumentary , ' another gimmick as surfed out as a Florida beach . The humor is sophisticated enough for adults to enjoy and , while there 's plenty of cool and cute stuff for the kids , we are thankfully spared any juvenile , obnoxious musical sequences with wisecracking animals bursting into song . ... surprise , Surf 's Up turns out to be a small winner , a cute animal animation that works its surfer world with offbeat humor . The central joke - and major appeal - of Surf 's Up is that the picture does n't seem to realize its stars are penguins . The real reason Surf 's Up is so aggravating is that it 's more concerned with sucking up to adults than it is to enchanting their children . Bops along to its own relaxed rhythm . This ride does n't take you anywhere new , but the moves are cool and the waves are impressive . Surf 's Up has a friendly , blue-collar vibe and some sly , low-key humor . 	Surf 's Up is a laid back , visually stunning animated movie that brings a fresh twist to some familiar conventions . Its witty mockumentary format is fun and inventive , and the CGI is breathtakingly realistic .
pineapple express Pineapple Express is never really focused - that 's not exactly the right word for a drug comedy . But Apatow and company certainly ensure it 's a lot of fun . Despite the `` smoking pot '' refrain , PE finds a way to charm . These guys really seem to enjoy each others ' company and are happy to welcome you into their little group . The sloppy script ( which Rogen co-wrote ) aspires to nothing more than old Cheech and Chong routines , built around frustrating , circuitous conversations . While its genre-blurring may seem audacious by studio standards , in the end , Pineapple Express still feels too safe , too constrained by buddy-comedy uplift , to have any real bite . ... an above-average contemporary `` stoner '' comedy . A warm and fuzzy sendup of Reagan-era action-film iconography , it 's sort of like what might happen if Cheech and Chong played Tango and Cash . Not since 'Pulp Fiction ' plunged a needle in the heart of an overdose victim has drug comedy met drug violence with the pop of 'Pineapple Express . ' Pineapple Express descends from patchy comedy to decidedly daft action send-up . An endearingly disjointed film that is funny despite fighting a losing battle with coherence . You 'd have to be high to think Pineapple Express is anything but a letdown . 	Both funny and scatter shot , this loose-knit action/buddy/stoner comedy bridges genres and keeps a steady tempo of low ball laughs .
