An individual 's idea , so long as it rests solely in his mind or is kept safely hidden , belongs to him . When he disseminates it to everyone and makes it public , it becomes part of the public domain , and belongs to anyone who can use it . If individuals or firms want to keep something a secret , like a production method , then they should keep it to themselves and be careful with how they disseminate their product . One should not , however , expect some sort of ownership to inhere in an idea one has , since no such ownership right exists . No one can own an idea . Thus recognizing something like a property right over something like a drug formula is contrary to reason , since doing so gives monopoly power to individuals who may not make efficient or equitable use of their asset . Physical property is a tangible asset , and thus can be protected by tangible safeguards . Ideas do not share this right to protection , because an idea , once spoken , enters the public domain and belongs to everyone . This should apply all the more with vital drugs that are fundamentally for the public good by improving health . Fitzgerald , Brian and Anne Fitzgerald . 2004 . Intellectual Property : In Principle . Melbourne : Lawbook Company . 	You can not own an idea , and thus can not hold patents , especially to vital drugs
Many developing countries are fraught with terrible disease . Much of Africa and Asia are devastated by malaria , and in many parts of Africa AIDS is a horrendous scourge , infecting large percentages of many countries populations . For example , in Swaziland , 26 % of the adult population is infected with the virus . In light of these obscenely high infection rates , African governments have sought to find means of acquiring enough drugs to treat their ailing populations . The producers of the major AIDS medications do donate substantial amounts of drugs to stricken countries , yet at the same time they charge ruinously high prices for that which they do sell , leading to serious shortages in countries that can not afford them . The denial of the right to produce or acquire generic drugs is effectively a death sentence to people in these countries . With generic drugs freely available on the market , the access to such drugs would be facilitated far more readily and cheaply ; prices would be pushed down to market levels and African governments would be able to stand a chance of providing the requisite care to their people . Under the current system attempts by governments to access generic drugs can be met by denials of free treatments , leading to even further suffering . There is no ethical justification to allow pharmaceutical companies to charge artificially high prices for drugs that save lives . Furthermore , many firms that develop and patent drugs do not share them , nor do they act upon them themselves due to their unprofitability . This has been the case with various treatments for malaria , which affects the developing world almost exclusively , thus limiting the market to customers with little money to pay for the drugs . The result is patents and viable treatments sitting on shelves , effectively gathering dust within company records , when they could be used to save lives . But when there is no profit there is no production . Allowing the production of generic drugs is to allow justice to be done in the developing world , saving lives and ending human suffering . 	Allowing production of generic drugs saves lives , particularly in the developing world
The sale of generic drugs invariably reduces costs to consumers . This is due to two reasons . It may be the case that an individual or firm with a patent , essentially a monopoly right to the production of something , may not have the ability to efficiently go about meeting demand for it . Patents slow , or even stop the dissemination of the production methods , especially when a patent-holder is unwilling to license production to others . Such an outcome is deleterious to society , as with no restrictions on drug production an efficient producer , or producers , will emerge to meet the needs of the public , producing an amount of drugs commensurate with demand , and thus equilibrating market price with that demand . This market equilibration is impossible under conventional patent laws , as it is in the interest of firms to withhold production and to engage in monopolist rent-seeking from consumers . This leads firms to deliberately under-produce , which they have been shown to do in many cases , as for example the case of Miacalcic , a drug used to treat Paget 's Disease , in which its producer deliberately kept production down in order to keep prices high . When a firm is given monopoly power over a drug it has the ability to abuse it , and history shows that is what they are wont to do . By allowing the production of generic drugs , this monopoly power is broken and people can get the drugs they need at costs that are not marked far above their free market value . Stim , Rishand . 2006 . Profit from Your Idea : How to Make Smart Licensing Decisions . Berkeley : Nolo . 	Production of generic drugs reduce medical costs by allowing increased production and the development of superior production methods , increasing market efficiency
Patent regimes cause firms to inefficiently allocate resources . One such inefficiency arises from the duplication of effort by firms seeking to develop the same or very similar drugs , though only the first to do so may profit from it due to the winner-takes-all patent system . This leads to brutal races and excessive expenditure of resources to be first over the line and to monopolize the production , at least for a time . These races can thus lead to efforts by firms to steal research from one another , thus resulting in further wastes of resources in engaging and attempting to prevent corporate espionage . Another serious inefficiency arises in the production of similar products to existing ones , seeking to get around existing patents . Such has been the case for years in the pharmaceutical industry , which has succeeded , for example , in curing erectile dysfunction dozens of times . An overemphasis on such spinning off of similar products is the result of patent-generated inefficiency . The inefficiency does not end with production , however , as firms likewise devote great amounts of resources and effort to the development of non-duplicable products , in monitoring for infringement , and in prosecuting offenders , all of which generates huge costs and little or no return . Furthermore , the deterrent effect to patent piracy generated by all the efforts of the state and firms has proven generally minimal . Clearly , in the absence of patent protection for pharmaceuticals , markets and firms will behave more efficiently . This is shown by the introduction of generic antiretroviral drugs for treating AIDS where the introduction of generic drugs forced the price of the branded drugs down from $ 10439 to $ 931 in September/October 2000 . 	When generic drugs are legalized firms and individuals no longer feel the incentive to misallocate resources to the race to patent new drugs and to monitor existing patents , or to spend resources stealing from one another
The current drug patent regime is largely designed to benefit and shield the profits of large pharmaceutical companies . This is due to the fact that most of the laws on drug patents were written by lobbyists and voted upon by politicians in the pay of those firms . The pharmaceutical industry is simply massive and has one of the most powerful lobbies in most democratic states , particularly the United States . The laws are orchestrated to contain special loopholes , which these firms can exploit in order to maximize profits at the expense of the taxpayer and of justice . For example , through a process called `` evergreening '' , drug firms essentially re-patent drugs when they near expiration by patenting certain compounds or variations of the drug . This can extend the life of some patents indefinitely ensuring firms can milk customers at monopoly prices long after any possible costs of research or discovery are recouped . A harm that arises from this is the enervating effect that patents can generate in firms . When the incentive is to simply rest on one 's patents , waiting for them to expire before doing anything else , societal progress is slowed . In the absence of such patents , firms are necessarily forced to keep innovating to stay ahead , to keep looking for profitable products and ideas . The free flow of ideas generated by the abolition of drug patents will invigorate economic dynamism . 	The current patent system is unjust and creates perverse incentives that benefit large pharmaceutical companies at the expense of ordinary citizens
The USA is by far the worlds biggest economy and it should do more to pay its share of the Global Funds funding needs . The Global Fund needs money to ensure it can do its essential work in combating three of the worlds most deadly diseases . The US has been hit hard by the economic crisis . But even though their economy has suffered , the US still has considerable funds available . While the economy is bruised , it is still worth remembering that the US economy is nearly three times the size -LRB- nominal GDP -RRB- of its nearest competitor , China . It boasts states with economies the size of many countries . If California were a country , it would have the ninth largest economy in the world . At least five other US states New York , Texas , Florida , Illinois and Pennsylvania have economies that would rank them in the top 20 of countries . US leadership is split on the new amount of money ; they do want to spend on the Global Fund . The Obama government has declared that they would be able to spend even in the recession the US is making a three-year -LRB- FY11FY13 -RRB- $ 4 billion commitment to the Global Fund . However currently the commitment is 1 billion USD per year -LRB- even though obviously they have the resources to fund far more -RRB- . This can be shown as the United States still has plenty of money that it does give to others , often those who do not need it . For Example aid to Israel has escaped cuts to foreign aid despite it being a developed country that does not need aid the U.S. is to give $ 3billion in Foreign Military Financing in 2011 . As the United States has the most available funds it is their duty to give more than the others and increase funding . 	US is currently the greatest economic power , therefore it should spend the most on helping others .
America is seen by many people over the world as an influential country that paves the way in international policies . An increase in funding will also have therefore a major effect on other donor countries . With the increased funding of the USA , there will also be a greater demand to invest more from other countries . The USA is still a big player in the global economic and political market . Therefore it is not surprising , that if they increasingly support or neglect a policy , other countries may use that as a good excuse to not do anything -LRB- or provide very little support -RRB- to the Global Fund . As we have seen in the example of the Kyoto protocol ; when the US did not sign the protocol this gave China , Russia , Japan , Australia and other countries a free pass to say that they feel no moral obligation , as the US , one of the biggest polluters does not participate in the agreement . So through pressure -LRB- or the lack there of -RRB- , countries control each other and many times also justify their actions . So in the case of increased funding a greater financial support by the US will also represent a wakeup call for other countries to donate more . The Global fund has for a long time been telling countries , they need more funds , yet they have not gotten them yet . Part of the reason is probably that there is too little pressure on countries . An increase from the US , which is already now one of the biggest contributors to the Fund , will therefore be seen as a moral step that will put pressure also on other countries to increase their funding . It pressures the countries to give more , when they see that the biggest contributor is increasing their financial funds . So with this role model effect , the Global Fund will get more financial support not only from the US , but also from other countries who will not want to be seen in the world as the ones restraining their support for lifesaving projects . 	An increase in funding will incentivize other countries to give more aid .
The US should show through spending on aid , the values it wants to promote in its humanitarian projects . Therefore well managed and effective projects should get more funding , and giving more funding to the Global Fund is the first step in this re-education of NGOs . This will serve other projects as a pointer what they have to do in order to receive more support and also set an example how projects must work in order to get increased funding . Currently the Global Fund deserves fuller US support as a model of a well-run and transparent international agency . Its multilateral funding frees it from the problems associated with programs run by individual governments , with their duplication and the often politicized conditions which are attached to their aid . Unlike more traditional international bodies , it has a small staff -LRB- c600 in Geneva -RRB- and tiny overheads , ensuring that the money it collects is pushed out into the field where it can do well . By inviting countries affected by HIV/AIDS , tuberculosis and malaria to make proposals , it gives them a big stake in the programs it funds . This makes the Fund 's activities more likely to be successful , but it also monitors the effectiveness of programs very carefully , being willing to withdraw funding if it is badly spent or proves ineffective . Finally it is innovative in making use of partnerships with the private sector - a key US development policy priority . Such novel approaches deserve US support and could set new standards by which other multilateral institutions could be judged in future , but without adequate backing the Global Fund will be seriously compromised and discredited . So an increased amount of financial support of the Global Fund will show many other organizations , that in order to get more funding they have to down size and become more cost effective , so that the invested money gives the most outcome for the people . 	USA should show through financial means the standard which they expect for projects .
Hosting the Olympics , or any other global sports event , is a huge prize for any nation , giving them huge international prestige and attention , and repressive regimes do not deserve to be by being given the chance to host the games . As the most recent repressive regime to host the games china is a good example . China is a communist dictatorship which maintains tight political control over its 1.3 billion people . All power is focused in the hands of the Chinese Communist Party , and those who call for the introduction of democratic elections are arrested and jailed . As the-then Senator Obama argued , it is past time for China to respect the human rights of the Tibetan people -LRB- Miller , 2008 -RRB- . Instead China used the games as a coming out party to show the power of the state . With the exception of the USSR in 1980 , every post-war Olympics has been hosted by a democratic country and this has helped to promote democracy as a desirable norm for successful states . Many democratic countries refused to send teams to the Moscow Olympics and while countries did not feel they could do the same with China in 2008 the principle remains the same we should not lend our support to legitimize dictatorships through sport . 	Repressive regimes should not be rewarded
The sports bodies that pick athletes for the worlds major sports events can be dictated to by their respective governments . As the sports bodies would ultimately be representing their state , not their sporting body , they need the approval of the government in question before they can compete . Furthermore , as much of the funding both the sport and their participation in the event is provided by the state , they must heed to the states decision . If the government in question rules that the regime hosting the event is not deserving of the attention and credence bestowed on successful hosts , it has the ability to order its sports bodies and athletes to not travel . 	States can prevent their contingents participating in sports events held by repressive regimes
When countries do not rise to the occasion offered by sports events and clean up their act they deserve to be boycotted . In the case of the 2008 games China has a terrible human rights record so in order to win the Games in 2001 , China promised the IOC that it would improve its human rights record , but these promises were not kept . Thousands of political prisoners continued to suffer in Chinese jails and labour camps with a quarter of a million people imprisoned without trial . Journalists are among those detained in this way , and the regime runs a huge censorship operation covering all forms of media including the internet despite promises of unprecedented openness to the media in the run up to and during the games . Once a state has been awarded the games there is little the awarding body can do to encourage the state to keep to its promises . When a state does not improve we can not show our approval by sending a team to the Olympics like the free world did in 1936 , missing the opportunity to use the limelight of the Games to make an issue of Germanys deepening persecution of Jews -LRB- Tkacik Jr. , 2007 -RRB- . 	Boycotting would highlight human rights abuses and encourage reform
The Olympics are a celebration of international cooperation and peace . This means that they should not go to states that dont live up to this . China is not a responsible actor on the global stage . Many groups like the Heritage Foundation cautiously welcomed the granting of the games to China as an opportunity to compel Beijing to adopt true Olympic values but they have been left disappointed -LRB- Tkacik Jr. , 2007 -RRB- . Its support props up dictatorial regimes in Sudan , Zimbabwe , Myanmar and North Korea , offering them loans , aid investment and military support , all of which democratic countries have decided to withhold in protest against their repressive treatment of their own people . China has also used its veto on the United Nations Security Council to prevent concerted international sanctions being applied against these rogue states . Deciding to boycott the Olympics when it is being hosted by regimes that do not uphold the values of the games , and would apply pressure both on the host and others to act more responsibly in future . 	Repressive regimes do not represent Olympic values
Increasing the school leaving age means that society will produce a workforce that is higher skilled , attracts more investment to the country , and earns more money . A study for the UK government estimated the economic benefit was 2.4 billion for each year group that has 18 as the leaving age rather than 16 -LSB- 4 -RSB- . When there is more money in the economy more taxes are paid , this means the extra cost of keeping people in school will be covered by these taxes . In some countries the cost of keeping young people in school will , at first , be difficult to manage . However , in many countries a large majority of people voluntarily choose to remain in education longer than they have to . In the UK for example 84 % of pupils in year 10 stated that they would remain in education after the age of 16 -LSB- 5 -RSB- . 	Raising the school-leaving age is a crucial investment in societys future
Making sure that everyone gets the same amount of time at school promotes equality . At the moment leaving school early is linked to economic and social disadvantage : those from poorer areas and families are more likely to leave school early than those from wealthier families . Parents who left school at a young age are also more likely to have children who leave school early -LRB- only 60 % of those children stay in education past 16 -RRB- -LSB- 6 -RSB- . Forcing all children to stay in school longer will help break this cycle of disadvantage . -LSB- 7 -RSB- 	Raising the school leaving age promotes equal opportunities
More education allows young people to develop greater skills so provides more options when they do leave education . It has been shown many times that those people who have more education find jobs easier and are more likely to find work that is satisfying . Extra education for young people also has a positive effect for the economy of a country . The impact of longer education is higher levels of productivity and earnings in later years . This is because longer in education helps workers to become more specialized , in todays knowledge economy analytical thinking is highly valued and this is something that is increasingly taught from 16 to 18 . Raising the leaving age has in the past had a significant impact on grades . The previous increase in the school leaving age in England , by a year to 16 in 1972 , resulted in an improvement worth one grade higher in two subjects . The result is many fewer people leaving with no qualifications . -LSB- 3 -RSB- 	More Education Brings More Opportunities
Not only has the policy agenda been different in Scotland but so has the model of politics . It has seen the emergence of new political parties and a better representation of the diversity within existing ones . The nature of political discourse , although vigorous and not as consensual as initially hoped , has proved to be more consensual both during the time of the SNP minority administration and the preceding coalitions than politics south of the border . The contrast between the coalition governments at Holyrood , the Scottish parliament , where Scottish Labour and the Scottish Liberal Democrats were allied between 1999 and 2007 , and the internecine warfare going on between Conservative and Liberal members of the current Westminster coalition could not be more stark . 	Devolution has demonstrated the ability of Scots to govern themselves not only as well as Westminster but with more civility
Many of Scotlands problems are grounded in the fact that its potential has consistently been held back . Because the focus for economic development from a Westminster perspective has focused for generations on North Sea oil and the coal fields of Lanarkshire , huge opportunities were missed and the best and the brightest tended be dragged down south for jobs worthy of their skills . Even with the limited powers allowed by devolution a burgeoning life-sciences sector , a growing IT sector in silicon glen are adding to the traditional industries . Since 2003 Scotland has generally had faster economic growth than the UK with 13 % during the period from 2003-2007 compared to the UKs 11.4 % . Independence would stretch people still further . 	An independent Scotland has enormous economic potential to join other small European nations , especially as a leader in technology and renewable energy
The Union has now passed its 300 birthday and throughout that time Scotland has maintained as distinct role and identity . This is grounded in a tradition and history that is quite different from that south of the Border and includes legal and education systems that have always been separate . That has manifested itself in a distinct policy agenda since devolution and areas such as free care for the elderly and the abolition of student tuition fees . Despite the opinions of doomsayers before devolution it has been proved as a remarkable success and massive approval throughout the UK with 70 % saying it has been a success . 	Scotland has a proud history and has demonstrated since devolution different political interests
President Obamas Director of U.S. National Drug Control Policyor Drug CzarR . Gil Kerlikowske has rejected the term War on Drugs , stating , the Obama Administration supports a third way approach because balanced drug policies such as those in Sweden have accomplished much for the countries that have implemented them . Nearing the end of the administrations first term , however , the rhetoric has changed more than the policy . In his Fiscal Year 2013 budget , Obama requested $ 25.6 billion for drug enforcementthe highest annual total yet . Despite this if reelected , Obama would take further steps to scale back the so-called War on Drugs . Rejecting the term is a symbolic start as it moves the issue away from being an issue of national security that the term war implies it is . A third way would mean reducing the securitization of the issue ; changing the view of drug addiction from being a moral crime to being a treatable disease so focusing on education and health . This may eventually mean decriminalising some drugs such as marijuana as happened in Seattle while not actually legalising drugs . In addition to Drug Czar Kerlikowskes rejection of that term , Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has also acknowledged that the United States holds much of the responsibility for the ongoing violence in Mexico . Obama has since expressed willingness to collaborate with Mexican leaders to change policy , but has not proposed a detailed plan to do so . 	The United States must find a third way
The Obama administration has indicated that it will publicly address the failures of the War on Drugs if it wins a second term . In terms of the direction of drug policy as a whole , several Obama aides and associates have indicated that the President will bring drug policy to the forefront of the national discussion if he is reelected , but it is unclear what specific steps he would take , going forward . This would be welcome to most Americans ; only 10 % of people believe the policy of the war on drugs has been a success against 66 % who consider it a failure . A national discussion is the only way to determine whether there should be a fundamental shift in policy . 	The War on Drugs has failed and there needs to be a new dialogue to decide on the course forward
Short of a nationwide restructuring of drug policy , the presidents ability to affect the everyday implementation of drug laws is limited . So far , President Obama has emphasized much needed judicial and penal reform . Currently the United States incarcerates a higher percentage of its population than any other country in the world , and 22 percent of those incarcerated in federal and state prisons are drug offenders . Obama hopes to begin to address these numbers . He has supported alternatives to current detention strategies both in principle and as a cost-cutting technique . Specifically , he supports establishing of special drug courts and sentencing offenders to drug treatment programs rather than prisons . This is necessary because so many crimes are committed while people are high or to fund the habit . For example more than half of people arrested in San Diego had illegal drugs in their system . As a result treatment rather than prison will reduce the numbers of crimes committed . Obama also signed into law the Fair Sentencing Act , which reduces the disparity in sentencing of crack cocaine users as opposed to sentencing for cocaine users . It also eliminated mandatory minimums for possession and increased penalties for traffickers . These judicial policy changes are cost-effective , pragmatic toward the goal of reducing drug use , and just . Incarceration costs approximately $ 30,600 annually per inmate , so treatment programs and reduced mandatory minimums for sentencing will save taxpayer dollars . The RAND Corporation -LRB- a government-supported non-profit think tank -RRB- , among others , has found repeatedly that drug policies prioritizing treatment over punishment are more effective , while costing less . Finally , Obama has made US drug policy more just by reducing a sentencing disparity that had unduly punished African Americans for decades . 	Judicial and Penal reform is needed
Free trade essentially removes barriers for companies to do business across countries and regions . This leads to competition between countries in those regions , and between companies and industries in those countries . It leads to the sharing of innovation , drives down the cost of production , and allows workers to move freely where their labour and skills are needed . This is good for all those involved in the transaction . It is good for companies , because they have more resources and markets at their disposal , good for consumers , because competition between companies drives down prices and drives the innovation that improves products , and it is good for workers , because they have greater opportunities to find employment for their labour and skills . DanBen-David , Hkan Nordstrm , LAlanWinters . Trade , Income Disparity and Poverty . 1999 . 	Free trade is good for development and growth .
Venezuelas Hugo Chavez has been making sustained efforts to boost his influence in Latin America , with regional tours and substantial investments in neighbouring economies , fuelled by Venezuelas oil money . He is staunchly anti-American and a supporter of Iran . Meanwhile , he has been restricting freedom of speech in his own country , has done away with presidential term limits , and has essentially proven himself as yet another Latin American dictator in the making . If the US hopes to counterbalance his influence , it needs to become more economically connected to Latin America . Showing that the United States is willing to trade fairly with Latin America would undermine his message . This would not only be the case for the United States as it would also allow Brazil and other successful democratic Latin American states to boost their influence . Carroll , Rory . Chavez Opens His Wallet Wider to Boost Latin American Influence . 9 August 2007 . 	Trade is good for democracy .
It is preferable for Latin American countries to band together when negotiating trade deals with the US and Canada , to better protect their interests . After FTAA negotiations failed , the US focused on bilateral strategies and trade deals where the imbalance of power was much greater in favour of the US , and it therefore could more easily dictate terms of the agreement that were detrimental to the interests of the developing country . For example , El Salvador , who is a member of CAFTA -LRB- Central America Free Trade Agreement -RRB- , together with only five other Central American countries , has found itself under legal attacks by foreign investors when it refused to lower its environmental standards in the gold mining industry . Having an emerging global power , like Brazil , be part of the agreement , would counterbalance US influence over the terms . Gallager , Kevin . Stop private firms exploiting poor states . 5 February 2010 . 	Multilateralism is preferable to bilateralism .
All national polls conducted in the United States have shown a majority popular support for banning flag burning . State and federal laws , passed by democratically elected representatives , have for decades passed popularly supported laws aimed at protecting the flag from desecration . The Supreme Court , however , has struck down these laws as being contrary to the rights to free speech , by a narrow 5-4 vote . Yet popular support for such laws has not diminished . This has led to attempts to pass a Flag Desecration Amendment to the Constitution , which would then necessarily have to be accepted by the Court . In 2006 , the House of Representatives passed such an amendment by the requisite supermajority , and it died in the Senate by only a single vote . Clearly , the vast majority of citizens and legislators actively support legislation to protect the flag . Law should reflect the will of the people and prevent the desecration of the nation 's most sacred symbol . Failing to do so gives precedence to the rights of a small minority to perform an act that does not hold any major sway over their lives over the democratic rights of the democratic public . Miller , J. Anthony . 1997 . Texas v. Johnson : The Flag Burning Case . Berkeley Heights : Enslow Publishers . 	The popular will calls for a prohibition of flag burning
It is highly questionable whether burning a flag can be considered a speech or expressive act at all . It seems to offer up no new concepts or true opinions to the `` marketplace of ideas '' . Nothing is genuinely expressed by the act that could not be done through words or other , less fiery means . The act of flag burning does nothing to help the advancement or elucidation of truth , which is why people have the right to freedom of expression in the first place . Rather , it clouds the issue supposedly being furthered by the act . It welcomes the rhetoric of `` un-Americanism '' , whereby critics and commentators question the protestors ' general patriotism , not the validity of their underlying cause , which can eventually lead to the same criticism of their cause itself . Anger clouds the discussion , with people viewing the cause in terms of unpatriotic people supporting the cause , and thus calling for patriots to oppose it . Examples of this problem can be seen clearly in the various protests during the Vietnam War in which misguided protestors burned flags to show their opposition to the war and killing of innocents . The response to these protests , however , were accusations of lack of patriotism on the parts of those involved and gave a powerful rhetorical tool to the political groups still supporting the fight . Furthermore , when anger and rhetoric cloud all discussion of an issue , it can lead to unmeasured , even violent responses from authorities and concerned citizens . Flag burning is thus counterproductive as a tool of protest , since it stops the message being propagated and pollutes the forums of discourse from being able to search for answers reasonably . 	Flag burning does not serve as an effective method of conveying a message , since it is always met only with outrage and sometimes even violent public unrest
Freedom of speech and expression is an important right , which is why it is listed first in the Bill of Rights ; it is central to a fair and free democracy . However , it has limits . Some forms of speech are contrary to the values of democracy , namely when they infringe upon or violate the ability of others to enact their own rights and freedoms . This is why such things as incitement to hatred , other violence-promoting speech , as well as defamation and perjury are legislated against ; they are expressions that infringe the rights of others , by causing fear and increasing risk of harm in case of hate speech , and by harming reputations and the effective administration of justice in terms of defamation and perjury respectively . Rights stop where harm to others begins . In the case of flag burning , as the dissenting opinion of Justice William Rehnquist on the issue says , the act is an extremely visceral one , and is often perceived as a direct attack on the core values of America itself , which many consider to be representative of those values , leading to feelings of anger and violation . It is an infringement of these offended people 's rights when flags are allowed to be burned . Goldstein , Robert . 2000 . Flag Burning and Free Speech : The Case of Texas v. Johnson . Lawrence : University Press of Kansas . 	The First Amendment to the Constitution , which protects freedom of speech and expression , does not extend to particularly inflammatory types of speech and expression , which includes flag burning
When destroying the flag of the United States it is the values of the United States that are under attack . Since the birth of the nation the flag of the United States , the eponymous `` Star-Spangled Banner '' , has been flown proudly in all parts of the country . It has become an endemic fixture in American culture and has come to be seen by people all over the United States , and the world , as a representation of the spirit and identity of nation . It appears on every seal of public office , is flown outside every public building and a flag-shaped pin is worn upon the breast of virtually every public figure . The flag has been imbued with a special significance by the citizens of the United States , and is viewed almost universally with extensive reverence . It has come to be seen as emblematic of all the values and virtues of American society . In a way it is the physical sublimation of those values ; at least that is how it is often treated . For this reason , to destroy the flag is to destroy the values they represent , and thus the flag must be protected in order to protect the values of the nation the flag represents . Miller , J. Anthony . 1997 . Texas v. Johnson : The Flag Burning Case . Berkeley Heights : Enslow Publishers . 	The flag of the United States is its primary symbol of nationhood , with a unique importance in the eyes of most Americans , and thus should be protected
The worst crimes deserve the most severe sanctions ; first-degree murder involves the intentional slaughter of another human being . There are crimes that are more visceral , but there are none that are more deadly . Such a heinous crime can only be punished , in a just and fair manner , with the death penalty . As Time put it , ` there is a zero-sum symmetry to capital punishment that is simple and satisfying enough to feel like human instinct : the worst possible crime deserves no less than the worst possible punishment ' . Human life is sacred ; there must be a deterrent mechanism in place that ensures that those violating that fundamental precept are punished . Capital punishment symbolizes the value and importance placed upon the maintenance of the sanctity of human life . Any lesser sentence would fail in this duty . 	The death penalty should apply as punishment for first-degree murder ; an eye for an eye .
The state has a responsibility to protect the lives of innocent citizens , and enacting the death penalty may save lives by reducing the rate of violent crime . The reasoning here is simple - fear of execution can play a powerful motivating role in convincing potential murderers not to carry out their acts . While the prospect of life in prison may be frightening , surely death is a more daunting prospect . Thus , the risk of execution can change the cost-benefit calculus in the mind of murderers-to be so that the act is no longer worthwhile for them . Numerous studies support the deterrent effect of the death penalty . A 1985 study by Stephen K. Layson at the University of North Carolina showed that a single execution deters 18 murders . Another influential study , which looked at over 3,054 counties over two decades , further found support for the claim that murder rates tend to fall as executions rise . On top of this , there are ways to make the death penalty an even more effective deterrent than it is today . For instance , reducing the wait time on death row prior to execution can dramatically increase its deterrent effect in the United States . In short , the death penalty can - and does - save the lives of innocent people . 	The death penalty deters crime .
The death penalty is the only way to ensure that criminals do not escape back into society or commit further crimes while in prison . While in prison , it is not uncommon for those receiving life in jail sentences to commit homicide , suicide , or other crimes while in jail , since there is no worse punishment they can receive . Putting dangerous murderers in prison endangers other prisoners and the guards who must watch them . The other advantage of execution is that it prevents the possibly of an escape from prison . Even the highest security detention facilities can have escapees . Thus , the only way to be absolutely certain that a convicted murder can no longer hurt others is to execute them . 	Execution prevents the accused from committing further crimes .
The death penalty can help ease the problem of overcrowded prisons in many countries , where keeping people for life in prison contributes to expensive and at times unconstitutional overcrowding . In 2011 , California prison overcrowding was so problematic that a district court panel ordered authorities to release or transfer more than 33,000 inmates . This decision was held up by the U.S. Supreme Court , which argued that the conditions in the overcrowded prisons are so overwhelming that they constitute cruel and unusual punishment . Similarly , in the United Kingdom two thirds of prisons in England and Wales have been deemed overcrowded . As such , the death penalty may be preferable to life in prison since it helps alleviate a pressing problem in the criminal justice system . It is better to execute those who deserve it than to be forced to release dangerous offenders into society because prisons are overcrowded by people serving life sentences . 	Execution helps alleviate the overcrowding of prisons .
The death penalty can also help provide closure for the victim 's family and friends , who will no longer have to fear the return of this criminal into society . They will not have to worry about parole or the chance of escape , and will thus be able to achieve a greater degree of closure . Mary Heidcamp , a Chicago woman whose mother 's killer faced the death penalty before the State Governor commuted the sentences to life in prison , stated ` we were looking forward to the death penalty . I 'm just so disappointed in the system ' . Other victims ' families deemed the decision a ` mockery ' , that ` justice is not done ' . 	It helps the victims ' families achieve closure .
Opposition parties in every democracy in the world produce stories or actions calling on those in power to do or say something ridiculous or making unfounded allegations just to get some coverage and damage their opponents credibility . Viewers and readers expect journalist to use their professional judgement in choosing where to give real stories the oxygen of publicity and when to ignore something as a publicity stunt . Unfurling banners in parliament is clearly the latter . As a result journalists are able to present their audience with something they have good reason to believe is true . Instead Aristegui , effectively , came up with well , some people said these , it might be true , it might not , someone should find out . That someone should have been her . An equivalent would be the difference between sharing some gossip about someone at work with a colleague and sending a memo about it to that persons boss . By mentioning this at all on air , the rumour is given credibility that it did not deserve and the Presidents reputation was unfairly sullied . 	Aristegui was fairly obviously played by the opposition ; she should not have provided the coverage they desired .
There is no public interest issue here , otherwise that would have been the main thrust of the story , moreover other news media would have picked up on the story as well . Instead this is a simple case of intrusion into a public figures private life , apparently for no reason other than it being a fairly easy story . This is exactly the kind of story that a reasonable distinction between public and private issues is meant to avoid . There is was evidence of alcoholism by President Calderon presented by the banner waving opposition so a good journalist should have either found evidence as if it was affecting Calderons ability to govern then there would be evidence that could be found or else she should have dropped the story rather than reporting rumour and insinuation . The fact that by doing so she endangered not only her own reputation with the presidents office but that of the show and the company clearly makes it a disciplinary matter . Intruding on anyones private life unnecessarily is unpleasant invading the privacy of a figure with whom one is likely to need to work in the future is professional stupidity . On both of these grounds , this particular intrusion was unnecessary . This has nothing to do with Aristeguis freedom of speech and everything to do with Calderns right to privacy . 	The journalist in question failed to produce any evidence that this affected Calderns job performance .
Lets take an historical example of the well-being of the head or state in democracies around the world . A majority of US citizens were unaware that FDR was wheel chair bound even after his death . The fact the Churchill hit the bottle early in the morning was never mentioned to voters in the UK , even at their darkest hour , and still remains a matter of debate . The French have long ignored the streams of mistresses wandering in and out of the lyse Palace throughout the history of the Fifth Republic . All of these things were well known by the journalists of their time but there was no need for the story to be revealed . The allegation of the opposition was that Caldern was a drunk , this then became a suggestion that he was an alcoholic theyre different things . This rather suggests that now research at all was undertaken into the allegation but that a slur was repeated as though it were news . Because of popular confusion between the two , it was repeated , presumably , because it was salacious . Hardly the highest standards of journalism . 	Alcoholism is a disease , if the story was that the president had measles , it wouldnt have got a mention .
Since education is something that the state is obligated to provide , any organisation that provides education is a representative of the state , even in private education . If religious groups are allowed to run schools then this means they are acting on behalf of the state , which undermines the separation of religion and the state , which the proposition believes is inherently harmful and undermining to the concept of democracy . Even the Archbishop of Canterbury believes having greater separation of church and state would be beneficial arguing `` I think that the notion of the monarch as supreme governor has outlived its usefulness . This separation has to include the education of children . Gay , Kathlyn . Church and State . Millbrook Press . 1992 . Butt , Riazat , Church and state could separate in UK , says Archbishop of Canterbury , , 17 December 2008 , 	Undermines separation of religion and the state .
The state should not allow the education of a child to be polluted by what is tantamount to brainwashing . Amartya Sen argues Under this system , young children are placed in the domain of singular affiliations well before they have the ability to reason about different systems of identification that may compete for their attention . Instead they have to learn about all religions to encourage tolerance . It is totally acceptable for children to have religious education outside of school and to brought to places of worship but school is a place of education and they should be given an education that is not tainted by trying to ensure that they grow up with a certain attitude towards their religion . Jeffries , Stuart , To abolish only non-Christian faith schools would be taken as an affront . The answer is that they all have to go , , 28 July 2006 , MacMullen , Ian . Faith in Schools ? : Autonomy , Citizenship and Religious Education in the Liberal State . 2007 . 	State has a responsibility to protect and educate its citizens .
When the government allows religion to act on its behalf , it confuses the role of the state and the role of religious groups . As it stands , religious groups do not appear to be truly answerable to the state and , therefore , it is unclear whether they or the government are the higher authority . For example in the UK faith schools set their own admission standards and increasingly have control over their curriculum , which in other state funded schools is set by the government , as well as they are being converted to academies . This legislation would make it completely clear that the state is the ultimate authority . Dawkins , Richard . Faith School Menace . 2010 . Paton , Graeme , Faith schools ` get more freedom over curriculum and admissions ' , , 7 May 2011 , 	Shows that religion is not a higher authority than the state .
Faith schools continuously perform better than normal schools . This creates a feeling amongst parents and children of wanting to be included in these faith schools . They are , however , excluded on the basis of their religion . This will create feelings of unfair exclusion , which will lead to animosity towards the religion running the school and , by extension , people of that religion . As a result of this 64 % of people in the UK believe that there should be no state funding for faith schools . The majority of faith schools are already tied closely to the state education system making it easy to convert them into normal schools which are not faith based . Much of the curriculum is the same or very similar so the change would not be difficult for teachers . In England for example there 6783 faith schools that are also state schools and 47 that are academies . These schools would simply change to having the same systems as any other school and admission would become open to all . Department of Education , Maintained faith schools , 12 January 2011 , MacMullen , Ian . Faith in Schools ? : Autonomy , Citizenship and Religious Education in the Liberal State . 2007 . ICM , Guardian Opinion Poll Fieldwork August 12 -14 2005 , , 2005 , pp21 	Creates animosity towards religious groups
Accusations have been made against Eritrea claiming that they have supported terrorist groups , particularly those operating in neighbouring countries . Eritrea has been accused of supporting al-Shabaab , an al-Qaeda affiliated terrorist group in Somalia who also operate in Kenya , as well as several other secessionist groups . Training camps have reportedly been established within Eritrea , several of which were attacked by Ethiopia in 2012 . The attempts to destabilise East Africa have naturally led to international condemnation , especially from the USA whose War on Terror was contradicted by Eritreas action . This would suggest that Eritreas own actions are responsible for their isolation . 1 -RRB- Smith , D. Ethiopian raid on Eritrean bases raises fears of renewed conflict , 16 March 2012 2 -RRB- BBC , US sanctions on Eritrea spy chief Negash over al-Shabab , 6 July 2012 	The government has supported terrorist organisations
Eritrea was responsible for instigating the war against Ethiopia , making it liable for its increased isolation . Eritrea was officially recognised by an international Claims Commission as the initiator of the war . The state invaded the region of Badme after a long diplomatic dispute over the border issue as they believed the territory was rightfully theirs . They removed the Ethiopian presence from the state , compromising territorial integrity and incurred a reaction from Ethiopia . This marked Eritrea as the aggressor . An aggressor in a war can not be seen as a just actor and has therefore contributed to its own seclusion by acting in such a manner . 1 -RRB- BBC , Eritrea broke law in border war , 21 December 2005 2 -RRB- Briggs , P. Ethiopia pg .30 	Eritrea started the 1998 war
Whilst President Afewerki was fighting for Eritrean independence he became a proponent of the self-reliant state , which could sustain its own population with no external assistance . Since independence the President has rejected foreign aid to the country through claims that aid is a method of enslavement to international donors . Numerous offers of assistance , including the free food distributions of the World Food Programme , have been rejected in favour of the domestic market . Afewerki claims that as aid decreases , farmers will work harder to ensure that food demand is met . The lack of donors and trading partners has served to weaken Eritreas ties of the outside world , making the state responsible for its own isolation . 1 -RRB- BBC , Self Reliance could cost Eritrea dear , 5 July 2006 2 -RRB- Saunders , E. Eritrea aspires to be self-reliant , rejecting foreign aid , 2 October 2007 	President Isaias Afewerki has sought self-reliance
It is important to uncover the real truth of what happened during periods of violence and/or repression . Uncertainty as to the fate of loved ones , the identity of informants or the motives for certain actions can maintain the grip of a conflict over the minds of its victims for many years . The unreason and capriciousness of certain actions can undermine an individuals identity and capacity to trust . A victory is supposed to bring rapprochement , reason and stability to a conflict zone but it is unable to have this effect on individuals without some method of rationalising a conflict . This result can only ever be achieved with the cooperation of those responsible ; the individuals who had access to relevant documents or even participated in violent acts . Without this collective revelation of grief and guilt , the families of the victims will never know the truth about their suffering , and so will not be able to mourn them with dignity . The nation must also confront its past so that those who did not commit violence themselves , but who supported violent groups or repressive regimes , even if only passively , can no longer claim , `` I did not know '' but must acknowledge their part too and commit themselves to building a better society . 	Truth and reconciliation are more important than retribution following violent and long term conflicts
Countries emerging from violent pasts , involving repression , civil war and political violence may attempt to come to terms with their histories in three ways . Firstly , they can attempt to ignore the past , allowing those guilty of atrocities to go unpunished and perhaps even prosper under the new system . This approach leaves victims ' families bitter and communities divided , entrenching resentments and potentially distorted accounts of individuals involvement in violent activities . Such a situation makes renewed violence all the more likely . Secondly , post conflict states can set up war crimes courts -LRB- as in the Balkans , Rwanda and Sierra Leone -RRB- , but these may be seen as victor 's justice , or as an imposition by a distant opaque international body . Those threatened by such courts may refuse to lay down their arms , jeopardising any chance of a lasting peace settlement - as with Joseph Kony 's long-running rebellion in Northern Uganda . Finally and often best , they can set up a form of Truth and Reconciliation Commission . This requires the whole country to face up to its past , to acknowledge that violence was done by all parties and that the victims were many , and to seek reconciliation through forgiveness at both personal and national levels . 	The reconciliation process provides access to justice in post conflict states
In many ways our trips to the moon so far tell us which questions we need to ask , the next stage is to find the answers . It also has the advantage of being close enough to earth that samples and data can be relatively easily sent between the two . The moon functions as a sort of attic for the Earth , a repository of rocks than are no longer found on earth . There are also resources , such as lunar glass and Helium3 , which could be potentially very valuable if they are there in sufficient quantities , human beings can simply cover more territory than Robots and make assessments like these more easily . If these rare minerals exist in sufficient quantity they could potentially fund the whole project . 	We already know something about it and so have a clearer idea of what to look for
Colonizing the Moon should not be seen as an end goal in and of itself but rather a platform for reaching out further into the universe . The moon makes a better base than Earth for a number of reasons . Any civilization that is serious about space exploration would probably have to start with the moon . Its a comparatively simple mission which would allow us to learn the pitfalls and problems while staying within a few days of earth . The moon also provides a better base for SETI than Earth as Radio telescopes on the far side of the moon would be shielded from the interference of Earth . Equally the Moons slow rotation would allow light-based observatories to undertake experiments lasting for days at a time . Most experts are agreed that it is statistically unlikely that Earth is the only life-bearing planet , to date we have not been serious investigating this issue despite the enormous implications it has for almost every area of human thought and activity . 	It would be the first step in colonizing space the moon is preferential to Earth as a base for investigating life elsewhere in the universe
If we compare the dual experience of Columbus and the Chinese Treasure Fleet of the fifteenth century , the Chinese decided not to pursue exploration and the technology of how to build and sail ships was lost until they were themselves colonized by sea-faring nations . Columbus voyages , by contrast were followed up with further expeditions , leading to the largest expansion in the history of humanity . The technology required to land human beings on the surface of another planetary body is comparable . All of those involved in the original moon landing are now elderly it seems sensible to deploy that expertise before it is lost . Recorded knowledge is all well and good but experience is also valuable . Equally , one of the biggest justifications for NASAs relatively modest budget roughly nine billion dollars at the moment is the trickledown technology from its innovations . Developing technology for survival in hostile alien environments may have applications on Earth such as inhabiting Antarctica or using resources vastly more efficiently 	We are already losing the technology and knowledge necessary for manned extra-terrestrial travel critically that required to land people , we owe it to future generations to retain it .
The idea of colonizing another planet as either a contingency against a future extinction event or simply as an area for growth . Extinction events are considered to be any event which destroys over 50 per cent of life on Earth and there are believed to have been five of them in the last 540 million years . It is in the nature of such an event that the warning we would have of such an event would not be sufficient to develop the technology required to relocate to another planet and so , by definition that technology needs to be developed when there is not the need . Taking global warming as an analogy , we now know that we should have been changing our lifestyles and economic models back at a time when virtually nobody believed that it was a reality . The moon could be used to develop biosphere and other technology which could be used in such a future colonization . 	The technology required for colonizing a second Earth would be easier to develop on the moon
A united Ireland doesnt have to marginalize the Protestant population . If they are included more in the political process there can be debate , discussion and an airing of grievances which can then be resolved . There is little sense of attachment to the UK , and British institutions . Much like the Scottish and Welsh , the Northern Irish feel Northern Irish . This shows that the ties to Britain are not emotional , but political . It is clear that Unionists just want to have power over how they run their lives . If Unionists are included in the political process in a united Ireland they will have no grievances and there will finally be a lasting peace . 	Uniting Ireland would bring about an end to sectarian violence
The age of colonialism is over . We recognize that the dominance of one country over another is morally wrong . Ireland was already in the hands of the Irish people before English earls and kings invaded . The Irish had a right to the ownership of their land because they cultivated it and so put their labor into it . The use of force to seize that land from the peoples control is unjust because it denies them the right they had to their land . They had no choice to voluntarily hand over their land either . To right this historical wrong , the British government should relinquish Northern Ireland , just as they have decolonized the rest of the world ending the British empire except for a few scattered outposts . Since Hong Kong was handed back to China in 1997 Northern Ireland is the only remaining colony with a significant population and independent identity . 	Britain is morally obliged to permit the secession of northern Ireland
The people of Northern Ireland should have decided whether or not they wanted to be united with Northern Ireland , rather than it being battled out in the British Parliament and the country partitioned by the Government of Ireland Act of 1920 * that created a separate parliament for the six counties of Northern Ireland . ** It was because the vote was not put to the Irish that the Unionists could twist arms and manipulate British politicians into allowing the six counties to remain part of the UK . After partition , the Unionists fixed electoral boundaries so there would never be a Republican majority in an electorate . This was unjust and illegitimately prevented a pro-Republic vote passing in future . * Government of Ireland Act , 1920 , ** Ferriter , Ireland in the Twentieth Century , 	The partition of Ireland was undemocratic
Unrest in Northern Ireland was started by the appalling treatment of the Catholic minority there . When there was a Northern Ireland Parliament there was some gerrymandering , while the discrimination in representation was slight very few nationalists were able to get senior jobs , in the civil service for example in 1927 fourteen of the 229 officers of staff officer rank or above , or 6 per cent , were Catholic , while in 1959 there were forty-six Catholics out of 740 in such ranks , or once again , 6 per cent . * Over the years reforms have been introduced but there is still huge stigma against the Catholic community in Northern Ireland , who have little representation in politics , because it is dominated by Unionist rhetoric . The best way to ensure equal treatment of the Catholics in Ireland is to unite majority Protestant Northern Ireland with Catholic majority Republic of Ireland , where they will be better represented in politics and not stigmatized by their neighbors . * Whyte , 1983 , 	It would be easier to protect the rights of religious minorities within a united Ireland
Workfares offer the unemployed opportunities to develop skills to work their way out of poverty . Productive work raises the expectations of those involved by increasing their self-respect and provides them with more confidence in their abilities . It also develops skills associated with work , such as time keeping , taking and giving instructions , working in a team , accepting responsibility and prioritising . Such skills may seem mundane but they are very valuable to employers and their absence among the long-term unemployed is a key reason why they find it so hard to gain jobs . Individuals who are currently working are also more attractive to potential employers than those who are unemployed , especially the long-term unemployed . The evidence suggests Workfare is a success ; studies of Workfare in Maryland found that 75 per cent of those who left welfare had earnings within 2.5 years . 	Workfare provides skills to allow the unemployed to work their way out of poverty
Making the unemployed work for their welfare benefits calls the bluff of those claiming benefit but not really looking for jobs . Such scroungers include the incurably lazy , those who are defrauding the taxpayer by claiming welfare while holding down a paying job , and those who are working in the black economy . Furthermore , workfare schemes require applicants also search for work whilst completing the scheme . Moving from a traditional something-for-nothing welfare scheme to a workfare system stops all these individuals from being a burden on the state , cutting welfare rolls very rapidly and allowing the government to concentrate upon assisting the truly needy . 	Workfare will eliminate scroungers , who are a financial drain on the system
Making the unemployed work for their welfare money positively breaks the dependency culture . Receiving unemployment benefit for doing nothing makes individuals too reliant on the state and encourages apathy and laziness ; this is particularly true of the long-term unemployed and of those who have never had a paying job since leaving school . As President Clinton said regarding welfare reform , ` the goal is to break the culture of poverty and dependence ' . Tying welfare money to productive work challenges these something-for-nothing assumptions and shows that the state has a right to ask for something in return for the generosity of its taxpayers . In New York , workfare pays slightly less than the minimum wage , preserving the incentive for the unemployed to use workfare as a stepping stone into a better-paid , long-term job . 	Workfare breaks the dependency culture
The Dalai Lama believes complete independence is not a viable solution for the Tibet crisis . Rather , his advocacy is aimed at creating common understanding between the Chinese and the Tibetans . He points to the model of the European Union as an example of a modern supranational political system in which different ethnicities and nationalities can cooperate to achieve an agreed ideal of prosperity . Look at the European Union What is the use of small , small nations fighting each other ? Today it 's much better for Tibetans to join -LSB- China -RSB- . The ` Middle Way ' is the most practical and realistic path for Tibet and China , as it bridges the needs of the Tibetan people with and interests of China . Specifically , the `` Middle Way '' offers a mutually beneficial course of action , as it avoids the concerns that China has regarding national unity and separation and at the same time it enables the Tibetan people to achieve de-facto equivalent of a right to self-determination . Acceptance of the ` Middle Way ' would work as a signal demonstrating the increasing openness and accountability of Chinese political culture . As it is beneficial for both parties , it can be considered as a practical political course with a great potential to alleviate an ever growing strained situation . China is more likely to negotiate with Tibetan activists and leaders if their demands are limited to greater political autonomy . Conversely , China is unlikely to give up control of Tibet , as doing so would constitute a grievous blow to the territorial integrity of China itself . The ` Middle Way ' provides the current generation of Chinese leaders with an opportunity to accord greater autonomy to Tibet , without risking their domestic political capital or jeopardising Chinas international standing . A key aspect of the ` Middle Way ' is an undertaking by Tibetan leaders not to push for further independence if greater autonomy is granted . The ` Middle Way ' also has the advantage of being in keeping with Tibetan Buddhist beliefs , mirroring the religions own middle way tradition . The Buddhist ` Middle Way ' is the descriptive term that Siddhartha Gautama -LRB- the Supreme Buddha -RRB- used to describe the character of the path he discovered that led to liberation . It was coined in the very first teaching that he delivered after his enlightenment . In this sutta - known in English as The Setting in Motion of the Wheel of Dharma - the Buddha describes the middle way as a path of moderation between the extremes of sensual indulgence and self-mortification . The Dalai Lama 's Middle Way in Tibet is designed , per its name , around these Buddhist principles , and so it has the advantage of being in keeping with the religious beliefs of most of Tibet 's population . This adds to its practicality as it would offer a political strategy consistent with the cultural norms of most Tibetans . Therefore , the Dalai Lama 's ` Middle Way 's is the most practical and realistic path toward rapprochement between Tibet and China . Liu , Melinda . Fears and Tears . The Daily Beast . 19 March 2008 . . Gyaltsen , Kelsang . The Middle-Way approach . Tibetan Bulletin , July-August 1997 . Dhammacakkappavattana Sutta , Samyutta Nikaya , 56:11 . 	The 'Middle Way ' is the most realistic path for Tibet and China
The USA , the most powerful nation in the world , has been vocal in its support for the ` Middle Way ' strategy . Concurrently , the US has not given any indication that it would support complete Tibetan independence nor is it likely to . America is unlikely to jeopardise trade relations with China over the Tibetan issue by giving political legitimacy to those advocating complete independence . The European Parliament and the Scottish Parliament have also both passed motions advocating for the ` Middle Way ' as a solution in Tibet . Such international support for the ` Middle Way ' should be compared to the fact that no country in the world has ever recognised Tibetan independence . Only the involvement of international actors and inter-governmental organisations can guarantee that Tibet and China will be able to attain a peaceful and equitable equilibrium with each other . International support means that the international community would accept any change when it occurs and gives China a further incentive to negotiate for some form of the Middle Way as it would positively benefit its international relations . Valdes , Manuel . Dalai Lama to begin 6-day U.S. visit in Seattle to discuss compassion amid turmoil in Tibet . Associated Press . 10 April 2008 . TibetCustom . European Parliament Discusses Current Situation of Tibet . TibetCustom . 26 March 2010 . Australia Tibet Council . Sino-Tibetan Dialogue Presented to Scottish Parliament . Australia Tibet Council . 2011 . The Economist . Britain 's suzerain remedy . The Economist . 6 November 2008 . 	The 'Middle Way ' has international support
The Chinese government has a right to protect the unity of China against Tibetan separatism . US President Abraham Lincoln , in justifying efforts to maintain the union in the face of an imminent civil war , said in 1858 , A house divided can not stand . Unity was argued to be essential to the integrity and future of the union if the United States as a much more decentralized federal union can not sanction such a division then a much more centralized China can not . China can put forth the same rationale as Lincoln for forcing Tibet to remain part of China , for example when it notes argues that the concept of an independent Tibet has historically been used by what it calls foreign imperialists to interfere in China internally and split it up so that it can more easily be controlled from abroad . As an example of this , the CIAs support for Tibetan separatists during the Cold War is cited . Mongolia provides a striking precedent for for Chinese worries about Tibetan independence , as it gained independence through Soviet backing and subsequently came under effective control of the USSR . If Tibet were to achieve independence , both China and Tibet would be weaker , with less geopolitical strength and with greater tensions and opportunities for conflict . This is especially true in light of the history of foreign attempts to interfere with China internally , as noted above . The Dalai Lama made a similar argument himself when he stated : Look at the European Union What is the use of small , small nations fighting each other ? Today it 's much better for Tibetans to join -LSB- China -RSB- . In 2008 the Foreign Minister of Cyprus similarly argued that the One China policy , including Tibet , was necessary to safeguard Chinas territorial integrity . The government of Fiji has offered similar support . The ` Middle Way ' accounts for this need of China 's whilst also offering greater autonomy to the Tibetan people , thus respecting the rights of both parties . Abraham Lincoln Online . House Divided Speech . Abraham Lincoln Online . Xinhua News Report . Xinhua News . Wonacott , Peter . : . . 30 August 2008 . Xinhua News Report . Xinhua News . Liu , Melinda . Fears and Tears . The Daily Beast . 19 March 2008 . Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Cyprus . Cyprus supports the principle of a single China . Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Cyprus . 20 March 2008 / . Fijilive . Fiji backs Chinas action in Tibet . Fijilive . 24 March 2008 . 	The 'Middle Way ' respects China 's right to territorial integrity
Googles decision to stop censoring was world news , and has put internet freedom on everyones agenda even so much so , that U.S. Secretary of State mentioned internet companies ganging up to censor the Chinese corner of the internet specifically as a threat to freedom worldwide in a recent speech . This helps to inform ordinary citizens of other countries who may not know about the great firewall what the Chinese government is doing . By making a high-profile decision like this , and by engaging and informing the governments and publics of free and democratic countries like this , Google increases the public and political pressure on China to change its ways . 	Not censoring puts global pressure on China to change its free speech policies
Googles corporate motto is dont be evil . This is partly an issue of corporate identity , and partly a clever business proposition . In both cases , complying with Chinese censorship rules damages Google as a company . The key to Googles dominance in the search market is that users know Google will always deliver the search results most relevant to them . By adhering to censorship laws , users will trust the relevance of Googles search results less , which hence erodes Googles business position as users will be more likely to try alternative search engines 	Not censoring helps Googles business proposition and corporate identity
The problem with Google censoring its results , is that in doing so , it is complicit in Chinas repression of free speech : it adapts its own search engine to display only the results the Chinese government wants , thereby limiting its citizens basic human right to free access to information -LRB- a corollary to free speech -RRB- . By avoiding this complicity , Google is taking a bold , praiseworthy step towards enhancing respect for human rights in China and with it , Google can set an important example for other businesses with dealings in China . 	Not censoring its search results is a victory for human rights
You are very lucky that you have the chance to vote to choose and influence your government . Most people throughout history have not had this chance ; in the UK women only received the vote in 1918 and most men only received the right in the nineteenth century . In the United States the timings were similar with freed slaves not voting until 1970 -LRB- even in 1940 only 3 % of African Americans in the south were registered -RRB- and women not until 1919 . We should remember the sacrifices of all those who have fought for the right to vote . Moreover huge numbers of people live in countries where these rights have not yet been won just think of the 1.3 billion people in China who have no input into the change in the leadership , the Politburo Standing Committee , every ten years . As voting has not been an automatic right throughout history you need to vote not just for yourself but for your children and their children in order to ensure that they have the benefit of growing up in a democracy such as the one you live in . 	We dont just vote for ourselves
As described in the above quote by Peres , the vast majority of Israelis desire to live in a Jewish homeland in which they can define their own institutions and culture in light of their Jewish heritage . A one-state solution , however , would undermine Israel 's legitimacy and internationally recognized right to exist as a sovereign Jewish state in the land of the Jewish forefathers . From Israel 's perspective , it is not possible for the Jewish people to accept an arrangement that signifies the end of the existence of a Jewish state , which would be the result of a one-state solution , as the state could not be considered a Jewish one if it housed a very large Palestinian population , possibly even a Palestinian majority . -LRB- 1 -RRB- For this reason it is unlikely that any one-state solution would be truly democratic , and rather would be a situation of an Israeli minority ruling over a Palestinian majority , who would be largely excluded from the running of the country and determining their own affairs . -LRB- 4 -RRB- A one-state solution would only produce an explosive situation in which Jews would dominate the economy and most other aspects of the new state , creating a reality of exploitation . At that point in time , the new state would be a new form of occupation that would only set the conflict on a more violent track . -LRB- 5 -RRB- Therefore , the new state created by a one-state solution would be unacceptable either to Israelis or to Palestinians , as it would cease to be either Jewish or democratic , and so would not be a just outcome . Only a two-state solution can keep Israel Jewish and democratic , and allow a Palestinian state similarly to be Arab and democratic , as it would most likely wish . 	A one-state solution mean Israel would cease to be either democratic or Jewish
Palestinians and Israelis will not be able to live together in peace in the same state any time in the foreseeable future . The idea that Palestinians and Israelis can live in peace and harmony in one state , with tolerance for each other and in keeping with democratic principles of inclusion , is simply naive . This idea has been made impossible by nearly a century of direct conflict between these people . While this might change in coming centuries , it is unacceptable to adopt a one-state policy now based on these naive ideas . Israeli President Shimon Peres has argued : Establishing a single multinational country is a tenuous path that does not bode well for peace but , rather , enforces the conflict 's perpetuation . Lebanon , ravaged by bloodshed and instability , represents only one of many examples of an undesirable quagmire of this nature . -LRB- 1 -RRB- This stance has been endorsed by leaders and officials from around the world : US special envoy George Mitchell has stated In the case of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict , we believe that the two-state solution , two states living side by side in peace , is the best and the only way to resolve this conflict . -LRB- 2 -RRB- Pope Benedict XVI has similarly called on Israels leadership to embrace the two-state solution for peace with the Palestinians : I plead with all those responsible to explore every possible avenue in the search for a just resolution of the outstanding difficulties , so that both peoples may live in peace in a homeland of their own , within secure and internationally recognized borders . -LRB- 3 -RRB- Even Colonel Gaddafi , the late Libyan leader , argued that a two-state solution was essential for peace . -LRB- 1 -RRB- The reason the two-state solution has been recognised as the best for peace is because it respects the democratic will of both peoples for a state of their own . As Peres argues , The Jewish people want and deserve to live in peace in their rightful , historical homeland . The Palestinian people want and deserve their own land , their own political institutions and their right to self-determination . It is vital that this cause be based on the prospect of coexistence between Jews and Arabs , which translates into cooperation in fields such as the economy , tourism , the environment and defence . Achieving all this will be possible only by granting each people its own state and borders , to enable their citizens to pray according to their faiths , cultivate their cultures , speak their own languages and safeguard their heritages . -LRB- 1 -RRB- Because only a two-state solution allows for this peaceful co-existence and development , a two-state solution is best for peace and thus more justified than a one-state solution . 	A two-state solution is best for peace
A two-state solution can offer sufficient territory for both Israelis and Palestinians . For Israel this would mean keeping the vast majority of areas inhabited by Israeli citizens within the state of Israel . The two-state solution would also , however , offer sufficient land to the Palestinians . While cynics might question the size of the West Bank and Gaza , optimists should look no further than Singapore for reassurance . The area of the West Bank and Gaza is nine times as large as Singapore 's , yet the combined population of Palestinians in both regions is smaller than that of Singapore . Singapore enjoys one of the highest standards of living in the world . The Palestinians are capable of achieving similar success , through instituting a modern economy based on science , technology and the benefits of peace . -LRB- 1 -RRB- Moreover , throughout the years polls have consistently showed respectable Israeli and Palestinian majorities in favour of a negotiated two-state settlement . -LRB- 6 -RRB- Even the Iranian President Mahmud Ahmadinezhad has stated that Iran would support a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict . The success of a two-state solution , therefore , would , at a minimum , gain the support and possibly cooperation of the Iranians . This would be valuable diplomatically , particularly in resolving the larger conflict between Iran and the West . -LRB- 7 -RRB- Therefore , the best way to satisfy both sides and achieve peace is to adopt a two-state solution , which is therefore the most just solution . 	Only a two-state solution can satisfy both sides
Most people see financial speculators as an unfortunate part of globalisation ; they make money by betting billions on future market changes without any concern for the ordinary people who may be affected by the resulting economic instability . Such speculators can easily afford such a small tax on their deals , and its presence may make them more efficient by forcing them to check that the positions they take are really justified by economic conditions . A Tobin tax protects the most vulnerable economies . Recent crises have unevenly hit the poor , mainly affecting the most helpless in those societies . Due to the current global recession , for example , 21.9 % of Britains youth are now unemployed . These economies are less flexible and adjust more slowly to huge shocks ; moreover their thinner financial sectors absorb financial shocks with more difficulty . A Tobin tax does not prevent bad outcomes resulting from bad policy ; instead it is intended to prevent groundless speculations . 	A Tobin tax protects the most vulnerable economies .
The Tobin Tax is an efficient and relatively painless way to raise billions of dollars per year that could easily be used to fund UN aid efforts . The revenue generating potential of the tax is tremendous . A recent study by the Institute for Development Studies at Sussex University has showed that a 0.0005 % global tax on foreign exchange trades alone could raise up to $ 26bn per year in aid . Even if we take the smaller amount , this would match existing levels of official aid . The UN and World Bank estimated in 1997 that the cost of wiping out the worst forms of poverty and providing basic environmental protection would be about $ 225 billion per year . For comparison , the total annual UN budget is about $ 10 billion . Given the current levels of poverty in the world and the desperate situations that we have seen emerging over and over again in the developing world -LRB- e.g . the Asian tsunami , or Kashmiri earthquake -RRB- , the need for increased funds for aid seems clear . 	The Tobin tax generates enormous amounts of aid .
A Tobin tax would reduce speculative trading and facilitate real trade and investment . As of 2010 , $ 3.98 trillion dollars changes hands every day on global foreign exchange markets . More than 80 % of this trading is buying and selling money for profits sake . This speculation has played a crucial role in the current financial crises , as well as those in the 1990s . In a crisis situation , currency trade swiftly increases and dealers often act as a herd and cause a rapid economic breakdown . A minimal tax would not hold back productive business transactions for trade and investment , but speculative transactions would be hit harder because the greater the frequency of transactions , the higher the tax charge . In addition , speculation in the international currency markets has had a damaging effect , destabilising the economies of many countries over the years -LRB- e.g . Britain 1947-1992 , Asia in the economic crisis of the late 1990s , Argentina since 2000 -RRB- . By damping down volatility in the currency markets while raising money for the UN , the Tax would be an ideal solution to problems like this . 	A Tobin tax would stabilise markets .
Sudans internal problems actively destabilized the entire region . More than a million refugees fled Darfur , many travelling to refuge Furthermore , the tendency for resistance forces to base themselves in these refugee camps , threatened and continues to threaten to spread the war into these regions , either igniting the north-south Civil War in Sudan , or destabilizing Chads government . 	The Chaos in Darfur is a threat to regional security
Perhaps as damaging as the humanitarian consequences of the failure to intervene is the message it sent to other leaders considering solving their political and ethnic problems in a similar manner to Khartoum . Rather than deterring them from following in Bashirs footsteps , the West by doing nothing , gave the impression that Bashir survived not through his own efforts , but because China protected him . Given the rapid expansion of Chinese influence around in Africa , this makes accepting Chinese investment instead of western investment vastly more attractive because in addition to the economic benefits , it is now perceived as buying Chinese political cover . In turn , this increasing interest in seeking out Chinese political cover will lead to more states being willing to imitate Bashir in the future , safe the knowledge that they will not be bombed . 	The West has demonstrated that hiding behind China is a viable strategy
The Sudanese governments unsavoury behaviour goes beyond its actions in Darfur . Its campaign against the southern rebels was replete with atrocities , and it has a long While Sudan has been more cooperative in recent years against Al-Quada , it continues to harbour Islamic extremist groups responsible for attacks in Egypt and Saudi Arabia . Combined with the conflict in Darfur there was a pressing case for regime change , and reason to think Sudans neighbours would be open and supportive of the idea as well . 	The Sudanese regime has a history of supporting terrorism and other unsavoury groups
The violence that occurred in the Darfur region of Western Sudan since 2003 , approached genocide proportions with the death toll estimated between 300,000 and 500,000 out of a population of a little over a million and a half . Not only was this a human tragedy . It was also a political crisis . The West invested enormous political capital in the idea that genocide , whether deliberate or through governmental negligence , is unacceptable , and . By having called the events a genocide and then failed the West discredited itself , both as a moral force -LRB- showing it cared more about SE Europe than it did Africa -RRB- and indicated to dictators that they have no reason to fear a Western response in the future . 	The Behaviour of the Sudanese government was tantamount to Genocide
The conflict in Sudan took on racial overtones . The inhabitants of Darfur are largely black , the government forces of Arab descent . Much of their treatment , including kidnapping and slavery , As a strong opponent of Racism , the West had a duty to act , given that the conflict was against those of darker skin . 	The conflict has a racial identity
Instant replay will lead fans , managers , and players to hold umpires in higher regard . This will occur in two ways . First , the vast majority of umpires calls are accurate . Statistical analyses have shown that well over 99 percent of calls are accurate , but this is not always appreciated by spectators . Instant replay will often confirm umpires calls , which will call to the publics attention just how often umpires get it right . Second , in cases where umpires incorrect judgments could have very bad consequencesfor example , in the case of Armando Galarragas ruined perfect game , or in deciding the outcome of a crucial gameinstant replay will allow a reversal . This will spare the umpire much guilt and shame . Umpire Tim McClelland , who was involved in questionable calls during the 2009 playoffs , said as much about his experience and those of Jim Joyce , the umpire who blew Galarragas perfect game : After watching what I went through in the playoffs last year and then what Jim 's going through , I think more and more umpires are coming around to -LSB- increased use of replay -RSB- . Former umpire Don Denkinger expressed a similar sentiment . He blew a call in Game 6 of the 1985 World Series , and probably changed the outcome of the entire season . I had 30 great years ... and I had one call thats all anybody ever wants to talk about . Its not right , he said , adding that he now supports instant replay . Gil Imber , Stats Prove MLB Umpires Call 99.5 Percent of Plays Correctly , , Oct. 26 , 2011 , . 	Instant replay will actually enhance umpires stature
There are times when umpires make incorrect calls that determine the outcomes of games or , worse , World Series championships -LRB- e.g . , Don Denkinger and the 1985 World Series , mentioned above -RRB- . These erroneous decisions lead to the team that deserved to win actually losing , and vice versa . In short , the results of the games are illegitimate . This is especially unfortunate when fans invest hours to watch a game -LRB- or hundreds of hours watching an entire season -RRB- , only to see the wrong outcomewhich could have been entirely avoidable if umpires were allowed to review their decision . 	With more accurate calls come more legitimate outcomes to games
Umpires must make split-second judgments , often from bad angles and with many elements to watch simultaneously . Mistakes will happen . Even the official rules acknowledge this when it tells umpires , You no doubt are going to make mistakes -LRB- Official Baseball Rules , Rule 9.05 -RRB- . Some calls will have to be made from a significant distance away from where the umpire is locateda commonly cited justification of MLBs adoption of instant replay on boundary calls . Fans hold umpires to an exceptionally high standard ; as former umpire Nestor Chylak put it , They expect an umpire to be perfect on Opening Day and to improve as the season goes on . But it is impossible for a human to attain perfection on his own , so we should provide him with the tools that will enable him to meet the exacting standards set out for him . It is folly to withhold technology that is already available . Even MLB Commissioner Bud Selig , generally an opponent of instant replay , acknowledged that the extraordinary technology that we now have merits the use of instant replay on a very limited basis when he announced its adoption on boundary calls . Just as we would never countenance a rule prohibiting umpires from wearing eyeglasses to see calls better , we should also not tolerate a rule that essentially keeps umpires blind to a reality that everyone elsereporters , coaches , and fanshas access to . Well-respected Sports Illustrate columnist Joe Posnanski captured this point well : Baseball ... should institute replay because its just not sustainable in todays technological world to make bad calls on the field . Those days are over ... You cant keep giving the fans at home better access to the truth than the home plate umpire . Instant replay is a necessary tool to help umpires see better . . 	Its not possible to get every call right , so instant replay is a necessary supplement to umpires skill
The main goal of an umpire is to make accurate calls . Umpires are meant to ensure that a player who is out is called out , for example , and that a foul ball is ruled a foul ball . When an umpire makes an incorrect call , he is falling short of fulfilling his primary responsibility . As the official rules of Major League Baseball instruct umpires , The first requisite is to get decisions correctly ... Umpire dignity is important but never as important as being right -LRB- Official Baseball Rules , Rule 9.05 -RRB- . Without a doubt , instant replay helps to improve the accuracy of calls . When a play can be reviewed after the fact , in slow-motion , from multiple angles , its almost inevitable that the result will be a more accurate judgment . Instant replay serves as an additional tool for umpires , allowing closer examination of events . By providing umpires with an extra set of eyes , video cameras will better enable umps to fulfil their purpose . Major League Baseball , , . 	Accurate calls should be the top priority , and instant replay helps provide them
Umpires are supposed to facilitate a smooth game . When they are the center of attention , it is usually because something has gone wrong . Legendary Hall of Fame umpire Bill Klem accurately stated , The best umpired game is the game in which the fans can not recall the umpires who worked it . The game is supposed to be decided by the feats of the players on the field , not the fallibility of the men in blue . Instant replay will help make this happen . With instant replay , we would not have had Jim Joyce , the umpire who blew Galarragas perfect game , holding a tearful press conference apologizing for his missed call . Instead , we would have had images of Galarraga celebrating his historical achievement with his teammates . The latter , not the former , is what baseball is supposed to be about , and what fans want to see . Instant replay will ensure that baseball revolves around the players , rather than the officials . Bill Klem , , . 	Instant replay will place the focus of the game where it belongson the players , not the umpires
Zero tolerance creates a far greater awareness of police presence because there are more officers on the ground . If people perceive that they have a greater chance of being caught , they are less likely to commit anoffence . Strict punishments provide another firm deterrent because they make it clear that the consequences of detection will not be a minor irritant . Convicts are less likely to re-offend because zero tolerance catches them early on in the escalating cycle of crimes and provides the short , sharp shock . There is a clear message that crime will not be tolerated . If a law is to exist at all then it ought to be enforced . Otherwise they will be held in contempt . There has to be a meaningful mechanism in place to punish actions that dont merit criminal punishment , but that damage the quality of life of others , especially through constant repetition . In this way a slide into more serious lawlessness and criminality can be prevented , and the rights of the law-abiding majority to walk the streets and live peacefully with theirneighbourscan be secured . It is the law-abiding majority who should be the prime focus of the protection the State offers . 	Zero tolerance policing provides a powerful deterrent to criminals .
The earlier on in the chain of criminality that people are given help , the greater chance there is of success that a cycle of re-offending will not develop . 	Zero tolerance also allows for a sound rehabilitative role
They are able to stop and search , and harass individuals constantly . Everyone who carries marijuana can not be arrested so in reality certain vulnerable groups , usually ethnic minorities , are targeted and labelled as criminals . New York saw a vast growth in complaints over police racism and harassment after zero tolerance Sydneys has been similarly racist and Liverpools system was closed down because of corruption and unacceptable aggression by police officers . If the police are to be fully respected they should behave in a courteous and fair manner . While treating all citizens in a respectable and decent manner never using unnecessary force . Zero tolerance policing reduces police accountability , openness to the public , and community cooperation . 	Zero tolerance improves the standard of policing
Parents have a great deal of responsibility in raising children , but they are unsuited to teaching about sexuality as the resulting education will not be consistent , be biased and in some cases may not be carried out at all . Parents tend to view their children as less sexualized ; they want them to be innocent . Thus it is often the case that parents seek to shield their children from the realities of sex , and themselves from the young persons developing sexuality maintaining their innocence through enforced ignorance . This tends to be particularly harmful to young women , as culturally boys are often expected to be more sexually active than girls , and such activity is usually considered appropriate for boys , while not so for girls . A double standard undoubtedly continues to exist . It is in the interest of the state , however , to produce well-rounded individuals who can interact with society effectively on all levels , including the sexual level . When parents do not provide adequate sex education , it is the state that is forced to pick up the tab to pay for STD treatment and teen mothers . People dropping out of school due to pregnancy , and individuals who are unable to work due to debilitating venereal disease impose a steep cost on society . It is thus the states duty to provide what parents often can not for the sake of society as a whole . Leaving sex education in the hands of parents has the further negative impact of normalizing incorrect or bigoted views regarding sexuality . Homophobic families , for example , will not be able to provide the necessary information to homosexual children , who will suffer not only from lack of education , but also from a lack of sexual self-worth . Mandatory sex education can right the wrongs of such misinformation and bias . 	Parents can not be guaranteed to provide a suitable amount of sex education
Sex and sexual identity is fundamental part of human life . Sexual desire , for both procreation and recreation , forms one of the core human drives that shapes behaviour . Young people want to explore their own , and one anothers , bodies from quite an early age , long before they would be likely to settle down and get married . Sex for almost everyone in Western countries is not something exclusive to marriage , and most people have multiple sexual partners in their lifetimes . In order to face this reality , young people must be armed with the knowledge of what sexual intercourse entails and the pleasures and the risks inherent in it . Sexual identity itself can be very confusing , especially for young homosexual or transgender people who may not understand their sexuality . A safe , objective environment in which the objective physical facts and the emotional aspects of sexual involvement and activity is provided is essential to facilitate young people to come to grips with sexual identity as it is essential for full development as a person . 	A safe framework for understanding sexuality and sexual identity are essential to human existence
It was said at the beginning of the HIV/AIDS epidemic that the only vaccination against the virus was knowledge . Knowledge about what is out there is essential to guarding the self . There are a several of ways in which this knowledge is essential ; finding out about the risks of sex is just one , having accurate information about the pleasures as well as the risks is another . Knowledge also prevents misinformation . Young people must be informed about sex , how it works and what the risks associated with it are , and how to access the risks and the pleasures . When sex is not talked about and kept behind closed doors , young people are forced often to grope around in the dark , so to speak . This can result in unwanted pregnancies , and even STDs , some of which can be permanent , a threat to fertility or even life threatening . IT leaves young people confused . The state thus owes an obligation to its citizens to prepare them adequately for their interactions in society , including those of a sexual nature . A mandatory sex education regime serves as a defence against misinformation about sex . Religious organizations , most notably in the United States , promote abstinence by lying about the effectiveness of contraception and about the transmission of STDs . When such activity is not countered by a scientific explanation of sex and sexual practices a culture of ignorance develops that can have serious negative social and health effects on those who are misinformed . An example of the benefits of sex education is highlighted in the case of the United States . In primarily liberal states where sex education is mandatory , young people are statistically more likely to be sexually active . At the same time in states where sex education is banned or deliberately misleading , teen pregnancy rates are much higher . Clearly the trade-off between high promiscuity rates on the one hand and much higher rates of teen pregnancy and STDs on the other stands in the favour of sex education . Young people live now in a society which is very sexualised it has been described as a carnal jungle . Adults need to offer guidance about negotiating a way through the messages about sex which proliferate in the mass media and consumer culture . Underlying this discussion is controversy about what sex education should be . Sex education has become a shorthand term for the broader subject of personal relationships , sexual health and education about sexuality it is clear that views about what sex education should be and what it should contain has changed significantly over time . High quality sex education should not only contain factual information about the physiological issues of sexual development and reproduction . It should also offer safe spaces for young people to consider the social and emotional aspects of sexuality and the social and peer pressures that arise in youth cultures . 	Sex education provides Immunization against sexually transmitted diseases and prevents unwanted pregnancy
Communities and organizations that oppose sex education can actually benefit from it . Unfortunately this is often not appreciated by the communities involved . One argument is that shielding children from knowledge of sex and sexual practice is disrespectful to religion . Religious and moral abstinence is defined by the decision not to have sex , not by the absence of knowledge of the existence of sex itself . Sex education can even be beneficial to understanding the religious and ethical perspective toward sexuality when it provides necessary discussion of the emotional aspects of sexuality . Information simply allows people to make fuller , informed decisions . Sex education does not serve to normalize sexual activity and lewd behavior , as religious groups fear , because everything in life is already sexualized . One need only watch a typical perfume ad on television to know that sexuality inculcates popular culture already . Sex education would not lift the scales from the eyes of children entirely ; they already have some idea of what is going on . The danger is when they know something about sex , but not enough to be safe . That is why mandatory sex education is essential to peoples wellbeing . The research evidence from across the world is clear that sex education holds back the age of first intercourse and most certainly does not foster early promiscuity . The abstinence programmes that have been developed in the united states in particular have been spectacularly unsuccessful in reducing rates of sexual exploration and STD and unwanted pregnancy rates . Research has made it clear which kinds of sex education are most effective . 	Even religious and conservative communities will benefit from mandatory sex education
It is a basic right for us as consumers to know what it is we eat . Today more and more foods that we buy are processed , they include many harmful additives , causing conditions such as hyperactivity in children , or are advertised as health food , but are in reality loaded with sugar or salt . It is therefore necessary for consumers to be made aware of all their food contains in order to make safe and healthy choices for themselves and their families . Parvez , S. , Processed food exports rise 41pc , published 3/26/2009 , , accessed 9/15/2011 Rosenthal , E. , Some Food Additives Raise Hyperactivity , Study Finds , published 9/6/2007 , , accessed 9/15/2011 Smellie , A. , That ` healthy ' bowl of granola has more sugar than coke ... and more fat than fries : Busting the diet food myths , published 5/21/2011 , , accessed 9/15/2011 	Food labeling is an important form of consumer protection
Innovation is inevitable . That holds true for food industry as much as any other industry and the food companies want to share their progress with the consumer to benefit from it . With the impact food labeling has on consumer choices , companies turned the issue on its head , producing food that is more in tune with what the people want and using labels to tell us about it . An example is PepsiCos Smart Spot program that is intended to help consumers identify healthier products products the company developed as a consequence of consumer pressure for healthier drinks that contain less sugar . What is more , the strategy proved very profitable for the company , with the smart spot products sales increasing 13 percent or three times as fast as the rest of the business . We see that companies were able to adapt to the pressure labeling created with excellent products , in tune with consumer values , and make a profit as well . Warner , M. , Under Pressure , Food Producers Shift to Healthier Products , published 12/16/2005 , , accessed 9/15/2011 	Food labeling encourages food companies to provide food more in tune with consumer values
Given that there is a global trend of increasing numbers of overweight and obese people , food that is fattening and therefore contributes to this problem needs to be clearly labeled so people can avoid them . Research shows that having this nutritional information helps people make better choices . Up to 30 % of consumers reconsider buying a food item after reading the food label and finding out whats inside . Another study points out that there were significant differences in mean nutrient intake of total calories , total fat , saturated fat , cholesterol , sodium , dietary fiber , and sugars when people could go ahead and use the information about the food they were considering buying . It is therefore clear that making more information about food available , especially in the form of readily available food labels , helps people make choices that will help the fight against obesity . Elseth , M. , Obesity numbers rise in 28 states , published 6/29/2010 , , accessed 9/15/2011 Arsenault , J. E. , Can Nutrition Labeling Affect Obesity ? , published in 2010 , , accessed 9/15/2011 diabetesincontrol.com , Nutritional Labeling and Point-of-Purchase Signs Work to Make Better Choices , published 8/10/2010 , , accessed 9/15/2011 	Food labeling helps people make better choices regarding their food
All states have sovereignty the supreme authority within a territory . This includes the supreme authority to decide who should be allowed into and out of the country . Illegal immigrants have breached that sovereignty by arriving uninvited and attempting to circumvent checks . These people should be deported in order to maintain the sovereignty of the nation . The United Nations recognises the sovereign rights of members when it says Nothing contained in the present Charter shall authorize the United Nations to intervene in matters which are essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of any state . '' Who is allowed to be resident in the state is an internal consideration . Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy , 2010 , Article 2 , UN Charter , 	States have the sovereign right to control their own borders .
Illegal immigrants cost the state in money , time and resources . It is difficult to give an accurate number on the cost of illegal immigrants for the rest of the population -LRB- the Federation for American Immigration Reform -LRB- FAIR -RRB- has come up with numbers as high as $ 1,183 per household in the state of California -RRB- , but they are likely to put a strain on resources by not paying taxes whilst demanding social services such as healthcare and education . As a result , they take taxpayer 's money away from those who are lawfully entitled to use these services and put a burden on the state . Moreover , illegal immigrants undercut the labour market by accepting low wages and working under illegal conditions . This is harmful to lawful residents because it takes employment opportunities away from them and encourages employers to seek illegal labour in order to keep costs down . Removing the illegal workforce would increase the number of jobs available to lawful residents and force employers to pay fair wages and provide safe working conditions . 	Costs of illegal migrants and harm to labour market
Repatriating illegal immigrants would lead to fewer opportunities for criminal networks to gain entry to the country . Illegal Immigration is linked to dangerous criminal activity such as people and drug trafficking , terrorism and the sex trade . An estimated 270 000 victims of human trafficking live in industrialized countries , of whom 43 % are forced into commercial sexual exploitation , mostly women and girls . This is both dangerous for those involved in illegal immigration but also increases the criminal activity in a country , putting lawful residents at risk . The state also has a duty to protect its citizens from the harms associated with illegal immigration . Illegal immigration fuels dangerous industries such as prostitution and the drug trade , repatriating illegal immigrants cuts off a vital source of labour for these industries and could contribute to the eradication of these industries . 	Illegal immigration is facilitated by criminal networks
Failing to remove illegal immigrants undermines public confidence in the government and its migration policy . In the UK , opposition leader Ed Milliband has acknowledged that Labour had lost trust in the south by underestimating the number of illegal immigrants and the impact they would have on people 's wages . People believe that allowing those who have no right to remain in the country to stay on means the whole immigration system is broken . Legitimate migrants such as refugees , students and those with visas for work will be lumped together with illegal immigrants , and calls will grow for all forms of migration to be restricted . Populist feeling may also be inflamed against ethnic minorities , with increased social tensions . BBC News , 2011 , 	Loss of trust in the government
The only way to stop the problem of illegal immigration is to take a hard-line stance and adopt policies of repatriation . This means that illegal immigrants , after it has been proven through a fair hearing that they have no legitimate reason to stay , will be granted a period of voluntary repatriation , where they receive counselling and help to return to their country . If this does not work , and the illegal immigrant wants to stay , he or she will forced to repatriate . Repatriation is needed because illegal immigrants are residing in a country which is different from their country of origin , without fulfilling the legal requirements to do so . They also do not make the same contributions to the state as other people do , such as paying taxes . This means that illegal immigrants are actively harming the legal system , the citizens of the country and legal immigrants . At the same time , the number of illegal immigrants is rising every year , with an estimated 11.5-12 million illegal immigrants living in the US alone . These kind of numbers show that the rules on immigration need to come with tough sanctions to ensure that they are not exploited or broken in the future . Repatriation is necessary because it targets successful illegal immigrants and ensures a comprehensive immigration policy that aims to reduce illegal immigration . What this policy of repatriation will do , is that it firstly will reduce the number of illegal immigrants in the country , which will lead to a decline of harms caused by them . Secondly , it will act as a strong deterrence for future immigrants . Repatriation sends a message to potential illegal migrants that their presence in the country will not be tolerated and that any attempt to stay in the country illegally will be unsuccessful . 	There needs to be a tough stance to prevent illegal immigration .
Three strikes laws mandate that courts impose upon offenders a lengthy minimum sentence upon conviction of a third offense . In California , the first two strikes must be considered serious or violent , but the mandatory minimum sentence of 25-years may be imposed upon conviction of any third felony offense . In -LRB- 2003 -RRB- , a four-time felon received the mandatory minimum sentence upon conviction of stealing three golf clubs with a combined total value of less than $ 1,200 . Regardless of how severe a view one takes of recidivism , such a punishment is clearly excessive and grossly disproportionate to the current offense . Allowing mandatory minimum sentences to be applied in cases like this undermines the integrity of the criminal justice system . 	Sentencing should be proportional to the current offense .
By mandating extraordinarily long sentences , three strike laws contribute to the problem of overcrowding in prisons . While inmates who have received life sentences under such statutes are permanently removed from society , studies show that overcrowded and poorly regulated prisons tend to have higher rates of rape andsexual violence . Those inmates who have received lighter sentences are , furthermore , less likely to receive access to proper rehabilitative programs , to such an extent that studies have demonstrated a correlation between overcrowding and increased recidivism . 1 . Pritikin 2009 	Lengthy sentences for repeat offenders only make ridivism worse
Mandatory sentencing laws prevent judges from taking into consideration aggravating and mitigating circumstances when imposing punishment . This is because by nature , fixed penalties must ignore whether mandatory sentences have beneficial or deleterious effects on the victims and on the family and associates of the defendant . At times , this results in greater injury to society than a more lenient alternative . Instead sentencing should be much more flexible to take into account all the different circumstances of a case and the nature of the crime . 1 . Stith 1998 	Punishments should be tailored to fit the circumstances of individual offenses
Humanity has built , in the relatively few millennia since formal writing was invented , compiled a truly gigantic quantity of information and knowledge , to which it is constantly adding , at increasingly rapid rates . To imagine the treasure trove of knowledge and experience that would become available to humanity in the event of contact with intelligent extraterrestrial life of similar , or even greater , technological and social development is almost impossible . The wisdom that could be gained , especially considering that alien life would likely have evolved along very different lines than humans , could be of a kind that mankind could never have conceived without such contact . This great potential for the gaining of knowledge is reason enough to devote resources to the effort of making contact . Sagan , Carl . 1973 . Communication with Extraterrestrial Intelligence . Cambridge : MIT Press . 	The knowledge and technology to be gained from interaction with extraterrestrials is potentially limitless :
Human history is one of exploration . Since the earliest days of Homo sapiens , people have striven to look beyond the horizon , to see what is out there . It was this impetus that led humans out of the small corner of Africa where the species was born , to see new places , to find new fertile lands to explore . It was this impetus also that led the first European explorers to traverse the great waters of the Atlantic Ocean in search of new trade routes , braving the very real risks of storm , disease , piracy , and fatal disorientation , as well as the perceived risks of sea serpents and other monsters awaiting unwary travelers . When the surface of the world was finally mapped , people set their sights on exploration of the sea floor , to climb the highest mountains , and finally to reach the stars themselves , all because they were challenges , unknowns to be made known . Mankind 's place is among the stars , and what lies beyond the Earth will also fascinate the human imagination . Nothing is so exciting as the pursuit of other life , other beings with whom to share the knowledge of mankind and the wisdom of the cosmos . Governments should not try to slow Man 's progress to the stars but should promote and fund it , for to do otherwise is to end part of what it is to be human . Truly , the quest to discover and contact life amongst the stars is a pursuit of truth and understanding . To not pursue such knowledge is to deny truth itself . 	Humanity in many ways defines itself through exploration , and the search for alien life is part of mankind 's exploration of the Universe :
Space exploration and research have resulted in many major advances in science and technology . Everything from Velcro to more efficient and powerful computers has come out of the space program . The technological advances produced by the space program would not have been possible were it not for the intensity of focus on the paradigm of exploration . That same paradigm has come to permeate scientific enquiry generally , pushing scientists to seek new answers and to develop new technologies . So long as mankind keeps pushing the barriers of its own knowledge , it will never stagnate , and human understanding of the Universe will continue to grow . Should humanity , however , take an insular view of itself and turn back on a history of pushing of boundaries , the paradigm of progress might dissolve as well . 	Space exploration produces many valuable technological innovations that benefit all of human society :
Space exploration fosters a general sense of internationalism . For example , in no endeavor have scientists from around the world more readily worked together than in the development of the International Space Station and other space-related enterprises . Looking beyond the Earth serves to unite humanity in a way nothing else can . When the Apollo astronauts first transmitted images of the Earth back to the waiting masses , the sight of that tiny blue-white marble suspended in the vast void profoundly changed the way many people viewed themselves . There was for the first time a sense of oneness , of citizenship of this island Earth . In the transmissions beamed into space in hopes of contacting extraterrestrials , the messages are emissaries of the entire human race . In this way space exploration actually gives mankind a transcendent purpose , promoting peace and understanding among nations that no amount of conventional diplomacy can create . Further to this , in seeking to be representative of all humanity , the formers of messages to be sent into space must actively ask the question of what it is to be human . In seeking an answer , people foster greater understanding of one another and of the oneness of human existence . Van de Hulst , H. 1961 . `` International Space Cooperation '' . Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists 17 -LRB- 5 -RRB- . 	The effort to contact extraterrestrial life causes humans around the world to think of themselves as one community , with an identity and purpose that transcends borders :
There is no way for us to attempt to prevent everyone in the planet from trying to contact aliens so the attempts might as well be done officially . There are more than 6 billion people on Earth , we can not control their actions or keep an eye on them all . If we had no official messages going out then we would be allowing private individuals to monopolize the message which could have consequences if there ever is contact as a result of these attempts . At the same time we ca n't just turn off all our communication signals . We have been broadcasting our radio and television shows , mobile phone conversations etc . for decades , how would we just shut it all off and make sure nothing leaks further out to space ? It is therefore better for governments who are at least the representatives of their people to be controlling the message by themselves attempting to contact extraterrestrial life . '' > Drezner , Daniel , ` How do you say `` realpolitik '' in Klingon ? ' ForeignPolicy.com , 25th April 2010 	There is no way to prevent attempts at contact so they should be official .
The overwhelming majority of scientific studies on this issue have convincingly shown that children raised by gay couples are certainly not worse off than those raised by straight parents . Some studies have gone as far as to demand that in the face of this evidence , gay bans be ended . Based on the robust nature of the evidence available , the courts in Florida were satisfied in 2010 that the issue is beyond dispute and they struck down the ban . When there is n't any scientific evidence to support the differential treatment of one group , it is only based on prejudice and bigotry , which should have no place in a democratic society . -LRB- accessed 2 August 2011 -RRB- . . -LRB- accessed 2 August 2011 -RRB- . . -LRB- accessed 2 August 2011 -RRB- . 	There is no fact-based evidence for this exclusion .
Discrimination is the practice of treating people differently based not on individual merit but on their membership to a certain group . The adoption bans are a clear example . Rather than assessing gay couples individually , it is simply assumed that they would all make bad parents because they are gay , while straight couples are assessed based on their individual merit . This breaches the fundamental right of all people to be treated equally under the law and it should be stopped . This principle is enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights ; article 1 `` All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights . '' And also many other national and regional legal texts -LRB- e.g . . The US Constitution , The European Convention on Human Rights -RRB- . , -LRB- accessed 2nd August 2011 -RRB- , -LRB- accessed 2nd August 2011 -RRB- 	Gay adoption bans amount to state sponsored discrimination against gay people .
There are still many ways for gay people to become parents . Some of them are able to pay for a surrogate ; some may have a natural child from a previous -LRB- heterosexual -RRB- relationship and then raise the child with a gay partner . In effect , what this law does is make it impossible for two gay people to have legal rights over a child they may already be raising together . These kids deserve the security of two legally recognized parents . If being raised by gay parents is really that harmful , why would the law allow two gay people to raise a child together as parents but refuse to legally recognize them as such ? 	Where same-sex households exist , they should have equal rights as opposite-sex households .
Getting married and raising a family is considered in most societies one of the most important and fulfilling experiences one can aspire to . It is so important it is considered a human right -LRB- Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights states `` Everyone has the right to respect for his private and family life , his home and his correspondence . '' -RRB- It is considered so important for people to be able to become parents that some governments -LRB- the UK , for example -RRB- fund fertility treatments for couples who are reproductively challenged , and a majority of the population supports that policy . But members of the LGBT community are stopped from pursuing this human right by repressive and discriminatory laws . , -LRB- accessed 2nd August 2011 -RRB- . -LRB- accessed 2 August 2011 -RRB- . 	Gay people have the right to a family life .
To members of ethnic minority groups overt public celebrations of Christmas can seem like a form of aggressive evangelism . It is an ethical duty of both Christians and society more generally to respect the beliefs of others , this makes the term `` Happy Holidays '' a much more appropriate greeting as it takes into account the mid-winter festivals of other faiths and cultures such as Hanukkah , Kwanza , Diwali , Eid , Ashura , to name a few . The Red Cross in 2003 banned nativity decorations from its British shops because it stated that an alignment to a particular religion could compromise its ability to work in conflict situations around the world . It is a Christian ideal to be tolerant of others , and limiting the use of the term Christmas in favor of more inclusive terms would be an incredible display of this , the term Christmas would not be banned , but its use limited to specific occasions in which it specifically refers to Christian based activities rather than the general celebration that is seen throughout the mid-winter period . 	State-sponsored Christmas celebrations can represent a form of aggressive evangelism .
The Christmas break is no longer a Christian festival , but a multi-cultural celebration during Christmas ; the state should not be sponsoring events specific to Christians during a holiday for all religious and non-religious citizens . Christmas is now celebrated not only in Western nations but the world over , it is celebrated not only by individuals which are not Christian but whole nations which do not subscribe to the Christian belief system . The holiday has transcended its origins , while it still represents some conceptual Christian notions it is no longer for the most part a Christian festival . Much of the symbolism now used has more relation to Pagan traditions than Christian ones with things such as the Christmas tree and mistletoe originating from the pre-Christian religion , in addition other common symbols have come from popular culture such as snowmen and reindeer . Very rarely now are the traditional symbols of a Christian Christmas actually displayed publicly or even in the homes of Christians themselves , with many preferring the symbolism of the modern multi-cultural Christmas . A UK study found that three out of four employers have banned Christmas decorations because they are concerned not to offend other faiths . It seems only logical to describe public displays by other terminology as this would reflect more truly on the celebrations of the winter period . 	Christmas is no longer a Christian festival , but a multi-cultural celebration during December .
Christmas celebrations in the Western world , held in schools and public squares , do not respect the rights of those who are not religious . For school children who do not share the majority-Christian faith , Christmas celebrations require either their participation when they do not want to , through coercion , or their non-participation and therefore isolation whilst everyone else celebrations their inclusiveness . States should instead be sponsoring and celebrating events that everyone can join in equally , regardless of religion , race or class . ` Happy Holidays ' is a generic term for the December break that does not discriminate between Christians and non-Christians , or indeed between the religious and the non-religious . Furthermore , even Christmas symbols like the Christmas symbol could be co-adopted to appeal to non-Christians ; Boston in 2005 re-named its Christmas Tree to ` Holiday Tree ' . A tolerant , multi-cultural state would not stop there , but ban the public naming of Christmas and celebrate the ` holidays ' instead . 	States should respect the freedom from religion , as well as the freedom of religion .
Public celebrations and festivals are all either organized or funded by the state , or otherwise have to gain their approval before they can go ahead . Therefore , if the state were to decide that Christmas celebrations were to be banned , it would be a fairly simple process to ensure they were stopped . The British city of Birmingham in 1998 altered the name of its Christmas festival to ` Winterval ' , proving it can be done . At public schools , states have a means to inform principals that Christmas celebrations will not be permitted . Punishments to individual principals whose schools do not obey could act as a deterrent to certain individuals informing their teachers to act contrary to the ban and thereafter claiming deniability . 	States could ban all celebrations of Christmas in schools and public places
Cloning treats children as objects . Children will be manufactured by an expensive technological process that is subject to quality control . The gulf between an artisan and an artefact is immense . Individuals will be able to have a child for the sake of having children , or as a symbol of status , rather than because they desire to conceive , love and raise another human being . Cloning will not only allow , but actually encourage , the commodification of people . 	Cloning treats children as objects
In many places in the world food is scarce ; tobacco farming uses up land that could otherwise be used for food production . By subsidising tobacco farming states take away from their ability to provide food for their own citizens as well as their ability to export food to other areas . Taking away subsidy money from tobacco would leave cash available to subsidise food production in these areas . In developing areas this would mean that there was much more food security , reducing the risk of famine and dependency on other nations . 	Subsidising Tobacco encourages people to grow tobacco where they might otherwise grow food .
Governments spend a huge amount of money on helping people stop smoking ; in the UK the government spends annuallyannually 83.9 m on services to help people stop smoking and a further 61.8 m on stop smoking medication . For the EU and states around the world to go out of their way to subsidise tobacco farming undermines these sorts of public health initiatives . Governments should be consistent in their subsidies and taxes rather than encouraging an industry with subsidies and then taking money away again with increased taxes . 1 . 	Subsidising Tobacco is counter productive .
It is nearly impossible to justify the state spending huge amounts of money on something that causes such large amounts of harm . About half of regular cigarette smokers will be eventually killed by their habit with 100,000 smokers dying from smoking related causes every year in the UK . By subsidising tobacco farmers the state makes it cheaper for its citizens to do a great deal of damage to themselves and others . Tobacco pricing has a large impact on tobacco consumption , in south Africa for example from 1992-99 a period in which the price doubled the number of packets sold declined from 1927million to 1400million , and so by lowering these prices states increases tobacco consumption and all the harms that come with it . It also has the effect of sending a message that the state supports smoking , totally the wrong message to send to society , p. 9 	It is immoral for states to subsidise products that are harmful .
There would be immense strategic benefits both to Europe and to Turkey if she were allowed to join the European Union . Turkey is already a important regional power with a lot of influence in the Middle East and Central Asia and it is already a member of NATO , which most members of the EU are also a part of . This is in part because Turkey is in an immensely strategic geographic situation as the border between Europe and Asia . Historically this has meant Turkey is ideally located for trade , today it means it is strategically close to the oil and gas fields advanced economies like the EUs depend on . Turkey is therefore vital for Europes energy security . According to the EU energy minister Turkey comes first in these countries for cooperation on energy issues because of its location . This is because Turkey is an important transit point for Oil coming through the Bosporus from the Caspian Sea and Russia and also for gas . Turkey acts as a bridge both to the Caspian and the Gulf and creates a second option for importing gas into Europe through pipelines that Europe needs as shown by the cut offs caused by Russian disputes with Belarus and Ukraine . Having gas pipelines through Turkey to the EU , such as the Nabucco pipeline , would shatter Russias gas monopoly in Europe . 	Strategic position and energy benefits
Turkey has a booming economy with one of the fastest growing economies of the world . Turkey has a young , skilled and vibrant workforce contributing in the fields of innovation , industry and finance . Having a young and growing population means that Turkey is in the opposite situation to the European Union , whose population is declining . As a result Turkey joining would be very complementary to the European Economy . In Turkey 26.6 % of the population are under 15 while in the EU only 15.44 % is . This is significant because the population of the European Union as a whole will be declining by 2035 and because of the aging population the working population will be declining considerably before this . Aging obviously means that the EU will not be able to produce as much , but also that much more of EU resources will be devoted to caring for the elderly with a result that there is likely to be an drag on GDP per capita of -0.3 % per year . One way to compensate for this is to bring new countries with younger populations into the Union . 	The admission of Turkey will help the economy of the EU develop more dynamically .
Geographically , Turkey is astride the divide between Europe and Asia , it is uncontestable that Turkey is in part a European country and so has the right to become a member of the European Union . Turkeys biggest city , Istanbul , is located within Europe . One of the core values of the EU stands as every country on the European continent after having completed all the necessary preparations has the right to join the EU . Furthermore , Turkey and its predecessors , the Ottoman Empire and Byzantine Empire were major European and World powers from the end of the Roman Empire until the breakdown of the World War I . The Ottoman Empire took part in the European states system from its birth even if as in some ways an outsider , until the end of the eighteenth century Turkey was considered to be much more a part of the European system than Russia . Turkey since the first world war has been orientated towards the west using western methods to modernize including for example making the state secular ; building a law system based not on Islamic law but on Swiss civil law . Turkey can therefore be said to be as much a western nation as an Islamic one . The EU : A Community of Values . Accessed on September 3 , 2010 . Anderson , M.S . , The Origins of the Modern European State System 1494-1618 , Longman London , 1998 , p. 57 Huntington , Samuel P. , The Clash of Civilizations and the remaking of world order , Simon & Schuster London , 1996 , pp.144-145 	Turkey is actually part of the European continent both geographically and historically .
Transparency is fundamental in making sure that mistakes dont happen , or when they do that they are found and corrected quickly with appropriate accountability . This applies as much , if not more , to the security apparatus than other walks of life . In security mistakes are much more likely to be a matter of life and death than in most other walks of life . They are also likely to be costly ; something the military and national security apparatus is particularly known for . An audit of the Pentagon in 2011 found that the US Department of Defense wasted $ 70 billion over two years . This kind of waste can only be corrected if it is found out about , and for that transparency is necessary . 	Transparency prevents , or corrects , mistakes
Transparency is necessary to avoid public relations disasters ; particularly in countries where the media has some freedom to investigate for themselves . It is clearly the best policy for the military to make sure all the information is released along with the reasons behind actions rather than having the media finding individual pieces of a whole and speculating to fill the gaps . A good example would be a collision on 16 January 1966 between a B-52 bomber and a KC-135 tanker while attempting to refuel that destroyed both planes . Accidents happen , and this one cost 11 lives , but could have been much worse as the B-52 had four nuclear bombs on board were not armed and did not detonate . In this case an initial lack of information rapidly turned into a public relations disaster that was stemmed by much more openness by the military and the US Ambassador in Spain . The release of the information reduces the room for the press to fill in the gaps with harmful speculation . In this case there was never much chance of national security implications or a break with Spain as the country was ruled by the dictator Franco , someone who would hardly pay attention to public opinion . But in a democracy a slow and closed response could seriously damage relations . 	Transparency prevents public relations disasters
The most essential commodity within a state is trust . Trust is essential in all sorts of aspect of our lives ; we trust that the paper money we have is actually worth more than a scrap of paper , that doctors performing surgery know what they are doing , that we wo n't be attacked in the street , and that the government is looking after our interests . In order to create that trust there needs to be transparency so that we know that our institutions are trustworthy . It is the ability to check the facts and the accountability that comes with transparency that creates trust . And this in turn is what makes them legitimate . The need for trust applies just as much to security as any other walk of life . Citizens need to trust that the security services really are keeping them safe , are spending taxpayers money wisely , and are acting in a fashion that is a credit to the country . Unfortunately if there is not transparency there is no way of knowing if this is the case and so often the intelligence services have turned out to be an embarrassment . As has been the case with the CIA and its the use of torture following 9/11 , for which there are still calls for transparency on past actions . 	Transparency is a good in and of itself
Transparency is necessary in international relations . States need to know what each other are doing to assess their actions . Without any transparency the hole is filled by suspicion and threat inflation that can easily lead to miscalculation and even war . The Cuban missile crisis is a clear example where a lack of transparency on either side about what they were willing to accept and what they were doing almost lead to nuclear war . It is notable that one of the responses to prevent a similar crisis was to install a hotline between the White House and Kremlin . A very small , but vital , step in terms of openness . Today this is still a problem ; China currently worries about the US pivot towards Asia complaining it has aroused a great deal of suspicion in China . A huge deficit of strategic trust lies at the bottom of all problems between China and the United States . The result would be an inevitable arms race and possible conflict . 	Transparency helps reduce international tension
The nation exits for its citizens ; it depends on their consent to maintain order and to raise finances . The main purpose of the state is law and order , and national defence , both of which are covered by security . As an area that is so central to the role of the government it is vital that the stakeholders in that government , its citizens , know what it is the state is doing in their name for their security . The Obama administration for example refuses to acknowledge that it is carrying out a campaign using drones while at the same time saying it is the only game in town in terms of confronting and trying to disrupt the al-Qaeda leadership . If the US government is bombing another country then the US people have a right to know with much less ambiguity what exactly is being done , who is being hit , when and where . They also need to be informed of any possible consequences . 	Citizens have a right to know what is done in their name
Even when bullies are sometimes prosecuted , they are charged with offences that constitute individual components of the bullying behaviour , like harassment , stalking , causing bodily harm , or invasion of privacy . But these offences were not designed with bullying in mind and fail to capture its overall impact and the harm it causes . While bullies may be charged with several of these offenses this will still not capture the kind of harm being done and would not be as effective as a specifically tailored offense . We need laws that recognize that harm and which punish those who inflict it adequately . 	The current legal regime is not able to prevent or adequately punish bullying
In criminal law , the establishment of culpability does not always depend on the intentions of the perpetrator . If , during a fight on a train platform , I shove someone and that person falls on the tracks and is killed by a train , I will be guilty of manslaughter , whether I intended to kill the person or not , because the harm caused by my actions is so great . The same applies to bullying . Bullies try to hurt their victims through their actions , either physically or psychologically . Whether the bully intended for the victim to die or not , is irrelevant . The bullys actions were responsible for the victim taking her own life . 	The bully 's intentions are irrelevant
Bullying can inflict serious psychological harm on its victims , especially in the case of young people . It leads to low self-esteem , depression , and for some kids it leads to suicide . Bullied children are almost 6 times more likely to think about or attempt suicide . This phenomenon has been termed bullycide and the law should recognize it . Many forms of behaviour that result in the death of another person are criminal , from murder to negligence . It is the duty of the law to brand such behaviour as unacceptable , deter future incidents , punish the perpetrators , and offer comfort to victims : in this case , the families of those who lost their life to bullying . 	The law should always punish actions that inflict serious harm - whether physical or psychological
Hate crime enhancements are unjust because they respond to two equal results -LRB- i.e . assault vs. racial mugging -RRB- with different punishments . We need to judge solely on the concrete actions of the aggressor in order to prevent punishments from being based on arbitrary judgements as to an offenders intent , which can be very difficult to prove . Otherwise intent may be supposed or argued in cases where it did not exist , leading to perverse sentencing whereby a crime is punished more harshly despite the true absence of intent . There is a danger of unjustly branding someone as bigoted and punishing them excessively , e.g . for their involvement in a bar fight where the victim coincidentally belonged to a minority group . Juries might also be willing to make the logical leap that , because the aggressor was proved to hold bigoted views in general towards his victim 's ethnic group , these views must have motivated his actions in this individual incident , despite the absence of any evidence linking the specific brawl in a bar to the aggressor 's views . Therefore it is unjust to punish two crimes with equal effects differently on the highly subjective basis of intent , and thus hate crime enhancements are unjust . 	Hate crime enhancements unfairly punish equal offences differently
Hate crimes are crimes that are based on an idea that the perpetrator had prior to the crime . The crime itself is no different from any other crime except that it is punished more harshly . Why is this so ? Because we are punishing an idea . All forms of violent crime , whether they are murders , rapes , or beatings are an expression of hatred toward another human being . To add more punishment to a crime because it represents a particular kind of hate -LRB- an idea -RRB- is to unfairly distinguish between different violent acts and trivialize those violent acts that do not appear to be motivated by prejudice hate . This is unjust because the idea itself does not cause harm , and is in fact legal in most cases -LRB- with the exception of direct incitement to violence -RRB- , as racist or prejudiced statements and ideas are not illegal in most western liberal democracies . We allow extreme and prejudiced ideas to be legal because we recognise the value of free speech and open discourse in debating and discussing ideas , so as to best allow for progress in human thought . Hate crime enhancements constitute an attack on this as they make an individual liable for harsher punishments for his actions if he holds certain views , and thus the law unfairly discriminates against these particular viewpoints and not against others , and so hate crime enhancements are unjust . 	Hate crime enhancements are an attack on free speech
By defining crimes as being committed by one group against another , rather than as being committed by individuals against their society , the labelling of crimes as hate crimes causes groups to feel persecuted by one another , and that this impression of persecution can incite a backlash and thus lead to an actual increase in crime . -LRB- 1 -RRB- These effects spread beyond the hate crimes themselves . By prosecuting high-profile cases of white hate crimes against blacks , for example , it encourages blacks to see themselves as part of a distinct community different from the white community and whose relations are marked by crimes committed by one against the other . This is especially true when one community seems to perpetrate more hate crime -LRB- or at least more convictions thereof are secured -RRB- against another community than visa-versa . An analysis of hate crime date from the USA examining how hate crimes against whites are viewed with respect to hate crimes against blacks has hypothesised that the prevailing view in the minds of the public is that the crime that whites are most likely to commit against blacks is a hate crime , and that it is hard for most Americans to envision a white person committing a crime against a black person for a different reason . The only white people who commit crimes against black people , goes the public belief , are racially prejudiced white extremists , and in contrast the very idea of hate crimes committed against whites is met with scepticism and disbelief . -LRB- 2 -RRB- There have been several high-profile cases in the USA where some individuals have argued actual hate crimes against whites were not treated as such as a consequence of such public disbelief . -LRB- 3 -RRB- This can lead to an unjust situation where hate crime enhancements are -LRB- or are perceived as being -RRB- only applied against one community by another , despite hate crimes actually being committed by individuals within both communities against other individuals . Therefore hate crime enhancements are unjust . 	Hate crime enhancements cause inter-community tensions
Under the status quo , the Greek economy is only headed in one direction : deeper recession . There are no signs of the situation changing any time soon . Were the Greek Government to default on its debts , after a period of recession , conditions would quickly be favourable for economic growth once more . This is what was observed when Argentina and other nations -LSB- 1 -RSB- recently defaulted and can be explained by many factors . Firstly , defaulting and exiting the Eurozone would allow Greece to conduct monetary policy more freely : they would be able to quickly devalue their currency in order to make Greek goods and services more competitive on the international market . This would increase exports and attract investment , as well as tourists looking for cheaper holidays all of which would contribute towards the rebuilding of the Greek economy . -LSB- 2 -RSB- Moreover , were Greece to default , it would put an end to the huge degree of unpredictability and uncertainty about the Greek economy . At the moment , nobody knows if the banks are safe , if the government will default etc . . The constant chopping and changing of current austerity measures such as increases in varieties of corporate tax and changes in regulations also contribute to the huge degree of uncertainty in the Greek economy . Uncertainty breeds risk and risk breeds fear : a recipe that drives away foreign investors and makes it difficult for local businesses to start up . Were Greece to default , however , such elements of uncertainty would be seriously diminished , and conditions would be ripe for investment from abroad and locally . Greek would be able to start afresh . -LSB- 1 -RSB- Pettifor , Ann : Greece : The upside of default , 23 May 2012 , BBC News , -LSB- 2 -RSB- Lapavitsas , Costas : Eurozone crisis : what if Greece leaves the single currency , 14 May 2012 , The Guardian , 	Defaulting would be the quickest route to economic recovery
The Austerity measures put in place by the ECB , IMF and European Commission have led to nothing but misery for the Greek people . They have failed to cut down the total debt % GDP ratio and have also failed to increase the competitiveness of the Greek economy . This is because raising taxes and slashing the minimum wage has sent the economy deeper and deeper into recession . Unemployment is at a record high of 21 % and there is a severe shortage of credit leading to severe difficulties in companies financing their day to day projects . Whats more , the country itself is plunged into depression . Escalated -LRB- inevitably -RRB- by the local and international media , the climate is one of despair and investment is at the bottom of anyones priorities . This further perpetuates the cycles of recession and prevents any of the austerity measures having their desired effect . Additionally , the drastic fall in GDP every quarter means that cuts in government spending are also not having their desired effect on reducing the budget deficit % GDP ratio . Worst of all , the economic hardships have drawn many people to despair and the suicide rates in Greece have dramatically risen over the last year and access to healthcare has drastically declined . -LSB- 1 -RSB- In this manner , the government is failing in fulfilling its most basic duties of safeguarding the lives and wellbeing of its citizens . If the current measures are not working then a new approach is needed . A default would alleviate much of the suffering caused by austerity . -LSB- 1 -RSB- Armitsead , Louise : Why Greece should default and exit the euro 23 February 2012 , The Telegraph , 	The current austerity measures are not working
A Greek exit from the Eurozone does not mean the end of the euro . It will , instead , mark a new beginning . Germany has a long and proud tradition of currency strength , but it could not cope with going back to the deutschmark because it would rocket in value and destroy the country 's competitiveness . Some 97 % of the Eurozone 's population will continue to use the single currency and their leaders will circle the policy wagons to protect what is left . -LSB- ` -RSB- A Greek default and departure from the Eurozone would decrease uncertainty and fear within the rest of the Eurozone . This , in turn is likely to attract higher levels of investment and transactions across Eurozone members . -LSB- 1 -RSB- Parsons , Nick : Eurozone crisis : what if Greece leaves the single currency , 14 May 2012 , The Guardian , 	A Greek default would increase stability for the rest of the Eurozone
Schools are constantly pressed for time , money and staff . It is simply not possible to teach everything to everyone . This means that all of education is a balancing act . We try and isolate the most important parts of a subject and teach children what they need to know , but first , we have to isolate which subjects are important . So , for example , we teach History rather than Philosophy and Physics rather than Astronomy . Everything we teach therefore comes at the expense of not teaching something else and there are already some countries that choose other priorities ; France for example prioritises Philosophy . Taking time away from maths has two advantages . Firstly , means we can teach other subjects instead , which will be more useful , such as dedicated classes on writing -LRB- or debating -RRB- . Secondly , we can spend longer on those subjects which we already teach , making them better . As a bonus , we could even use this time to extend science lessons to include whatever maths is necessary , meaning we dont lose out at all . Schofield , Hugh , Why does France insist school pupils master philosophy ? , , 3 June 2013 , 	If we dont teach maths we can teach other things instead
It is a fundamental principle of education that different people think in different ways . One notable application of this is the theory of different learning styles , and it also makes people have a preference for certain subjects . Many people find maths hard , 37 % of teens think it is the most difficult subject , for a variety of reasons it simply isnt suited to all minds . Another fundamental principle is that all children are equal , in the sense that we should support them equally in helping them find the right opportunities . It follows that we should teach them something useful and relevant to their personality and preferences . But whatever that may turn out to be , it will not be maths , and maths would just waste their time . It makes sense to teach arithmetic to even these people , but there is no need to make them study further . Cherry , Kendra , VARK Learning Styles , , accessed 12 June 2013 Saad , Lydia , Math Problematic for U.S . Teens , , 17 May 2005 , 	Some people find maths hard
Maths is one of the least engaging subjects taught at school . Subjects like chemistry are full of flashes , fires and experiments which help people see what theyre being taught in front of them . History starts with telling stories , and even though thats not what the subject is really about , it offers a window into it . By contrast , maths has almost nothing similar . Asking children to use trigonometry to find the height of a tree does not fool them all they see is another triangle . Some people enjoy it , but many do not . Forcing people through maths classes which they find boring and irrelevant will only put them off maths ; a recent study found that motivation was the most important factor for improving maths grades . This in turn makes their children less likely to study maths , and causes a cycle in which a large section of the population have as little to do with maths as they can . It would be much better to not make these people study maths . True , they would end up not knowing any more than the bare essentials , but this is better than making them hate it . Ghose , Tia , Like Math ? Thank Your Motivation , Not IQ , , 28 December 2012 , Kreutzer , Laura , Our Child Hates Math . Is It Our Fault ? , , 14 April 2013 , 	Maths is not engaging for students
Corporate personhood is a challenging concept for liberal democracies . On the one hand , the legal fiction that underlies personhood enables groups of citizens to quickly and efficiently join forces to make collective grievances heard and to use weight of numbers to match the influence of wealthier individuals . However , corporations , particularly in the business context , can also be large and unaccountable organisations . This proposition must address two issues . First , whether acts of free expression engaged in by corporations generally should benefit from the same protection as acts of expression engaged in by individuals . Second , whether there should be more scrutiny of the membership and objectives of corporations or whether corporations should receive rights conditional on their activities . If we follow the reasoning in the Citizens United case , which radically changed the interpretation of corporate speech rights in American law , it is clear that acts of corporate speech should benefit from a high standard of protection . Corporations can take the form of churches , trades unions or political campaigning groups . The fiction of personhood allows these organisations to operate more freely , ignoring many of the bureaucratic burdens associated with partnership organisations . It also allows citizens to found non-profit making groups , such as PACs , without the risk of being made liable for the debts that those groups generate . Profit-led corporations may be used to publish examples of free expression , without necessarily wishing to influence or misuse the ideas expressed . The publishers of political science textbooks , of annotated editions of Kapital and of Capitalism and Freedom are still profit-led businesses . In short , free speech in liberal democracies can not be exercised effectively without the ability to disseminate speech among a large audience , and without the ability to co-operate with others in order to do so . For this reason , where a corporation is permitted to engage in free expression , the contents of its acts of expression should not be subject to restrictions that differ radically from those applied to individual acts of expression . But what about the second issue ? Natural persons are allowed - as a general rule - a broad right to free expression . This right is subject to certain caveats , but there is always a presumption that expression should be free and subject to as few limitations as possible . Should corporations benefit from the same presumption ? No . The proposition side suggests that corporations access to constitutional free speech rights should depend on their goals , objectives and membership . Corporations , unlike natural persons , are inflexible in their motives and influences . Free speech is preferable to conflict because it acts as a conduit for compromise , but before compromise can take place it must be possible for the participants and audience in a discussion or an exchange of views to be influenced by their opponents arguments . Profit-led corporations owe a very specific duty to their shareholders - the individual who support and constitute the corporation . Under the corporate-laws of almost all liberal democracies , business corporations must act in their interests , and this invariably means generating profit and increasing the value of the equity that each shareholder has in the business . Because this duty is a legal one , and failure to uphold it can be cause to remove corporate decision makers -LRB- directors and executives -RRB- from their jobs and even to bring them to trial . This behavioural imperative is absolute . Were a business corporation to announce that it would no longer operate with profit as its core priority , it would collapse . Even if this process might not be inevitable in the real world , it still informs corporate culture to a significant degree . Natural persons are flexible and pragmatic ; at the very least they have the potential to be so . Profit-led corporations are not . Free speech rights exercised by a profit-led corporation will always be exercised in the service of the profit motive . Citizens United v Federal Election Commission . Supreme Court of the United States , 21 January 2010 . 558 US Bakan , J . The Corporation , Free Press , 2004 Kay needs to replace shareholder value with corporate value . Professor Simon Deakin . Financial times , 20 March 2012 . 	Corporates that attempt to address social issues damage political discourse .
The content of public speech is informed as much by the ideas and convictions of individuals engaged in free expression as it is by the concurrent acts of expression engaged in by other individuals . Free speech is a product of society and the processes driving the development and growth of society . The environment in which free speech is currently exercised is characterised by pervasive acts of expression television commercials , billboards , spam email and advertisements on social media sites . Each of these forms of media is aimed at influencing opinions and behaviours . Active engagement with a book or a movie is often a prerequisite if an individual is to be influenced by its content . . The audience for the content contained in an advert does not necessarily choose to engage with its message . As a result of this , adverts are uniquely placed to bring issues and perspectives to the attention of individuals who might otherwise have been unaware of them . Advertising is a powerful political tool . For this reason the manner in which political causes can be advertised and the amount of funding spent on those adverts is , almost without exception , strictly regulated in most liberal democracies . Commercial content carried by for-profit organisations such as newspapers and television channels is expensive . The prominence of a message is affected by the amount of money that can be spent on increasing its length , rebroadcasting it and showing it to new audiences . When it comes to political speech , spending money is the best way to increase the efficacy and persuasiveness of a message . Irrespective of the qualities of a particular campaign , the qualifications of its candidates or the evidence underlying its policy proposals , its effectiveness will still be measured in the amount of money that it is able to spend on advertising . Legal restrictions on political spending are intended to prevent political speech from becoming a battle of budget rather than ideas campaign finance laws are designed to protect the integrity , quality and efficacy of speech . In the USA the Bi-partisan Campaign Reform Act achieved this goal by preventing corporations from funding electioneering communications within 30 days of a caucus or 60 days of a general election . Electioneering communications were defined by the acts as publications that named a federal candidate -LRB- a candidate for a presidential election , for example -RRB- . The Act prevented interest groups indirectly affiliated with particular candidates from spending money to support a candidates message . Although there are limits on the income that a politician can directly receive from donors , different rules apply to organisations that are not directly affiliated with that politician . And although a politician may receive criticism for receiving corporate money , corporations can contribute to causes indirectly , by providing funds of issue groups . 	Corporate influence distracts politicians from the needs of their constituents .
Not responding to Syrian moves to use chemical weapons will be enabling the Syrian government to use chemical weapons . It has already been reported that some chemical weapons are being made ready for use such as the combining of the two chemical precursors , isopropanol and methylphosphony difluoride , needed to weaponize sarin gas . It means that Physically , theyve gotten to the point where the can load it up on a plane and drop it . If there is no response to this then Syria will be more likely to use weapons . If there is no response to the limited use of chemical weapons , such as the use of Agent 15 in Homs , then there the regime will be encouraged to think that there will be no response to larger uses of chemical weapons . Syria would slowly escalate to see what it can get away with , an escalation that US officials think could lead to a mass-casualty event without the appropriate response . Shachtman , Noah , and Ackerman , Spencer , Exclusive : U.S. Sees Syria Prepping Chemical Weapons for Possible Attack , , 3 December 2012 , Rogin , Josh , Exclusive : Secret State Department cable : Chemical weapons used in Syria , , 15 January 2013 , 	No reaction will embolden the regime
One of the reasons why there has not been an intervention in Syria already is the difficulty of doing so . Preventing or limiting the use of chemical weapons however does represent a defined objective that is smaller , and therefore easier , than bringing peace to Syria . It however has to be accepted that if Assads regime is determined to use chemical weapons then some are likely to get through and how much is prevented is largely dependent on intelligence . Interdicting chemical weapons during transport and bombing the storage facilities to make it much more difficult to move the weapons would be easiest to accomplish . But if chemical weapons are about to be used then attacking the delivery vehicles would be necessary ; any intervention would have overwhelming air superiority so would prevent the option of aircraft and helicopters being used to deliver the weapons . More difficult to destroy are ballistic missiles , and particularly artillery but even these are much easier to hit than infantry would be . In the conflict against Gaddafi successfully used precision guided weapons to destroy tanks and artillery . Moreover an intervening force would not need to destroy every missile and artillery brigade only find those that are being issued with chemical weapons . Eisenstadt , Michael , Chemical Reaction , , 18 January 2013 , 	No fly zones and bombing could eliminate the threat of chemical weapons
Sanctions send a strong message to the people of a country that the Western world is on their side and will not just remain compliant by dealing with an oppressive regime as if it has done nothing wrong . Part of what encourages peoples to stand up for their civil liberties is a feeling of support against their regime from outside actors . True reform needs to come from pressure within and outside of the state as it did in South Africa . The only way to incentivize internal pressure is by expressing support for civilian movements . In the case of the repressive government in Myanmar , the lifting of sanctions would be viewed as a betrayal by the Myanmarese and would reverse any progress that sanctions have helped to achieve . The leader of the opposition movement , Aung San Suu Kyi , in Myanmar has called for a continuation of sanctions , and in an act of support the US has complied . Therefore sanctions can be an important signal of support to a country 's people , which makes them more likely to stand up to their government and create the necessary internal pressure for reform . 	Sanctions make clear where a country stands .
Most diplomatic negotiations occur behind closed doors , and it has been hypothesized that if sanctions are going to be effective it is the threat of the sanctions that forces the country to concede , not the sanctions themselves . That said , if sanctions were never followed through , the threat would be meaningless . The use of sanctions builds up the fear of sanction . This fear can bend countries towards the will of the sanctioning nation . To maintain the threat of sanctions as a viable negotiating tool , sanctions need to be implemented on occasion to prevent sanctions from becoming an empty , meaningless threat . 	Just the threat of sanctions can be an effective coercive tool .
If sanctions are effective , their use is justified because they ultimately achieve a desired outcome . They cause financial pain to leaders pressuring them to reform . Long term sanctions on South Africa were an effective policy . They caused the living standards in the country to deteriorate , however this ultimately led to the right amount of pressure on the government for apartheid to be ended . Economic restrictions were first placed on South Africa in 1963 and were ultimately lifted after the end of apartheid almost 30 years later . Nelson Mandela himself has stated that sanctions played a role in forcing the South African government to end apartheid . The success of sanctions in the past has prevented the international community from taking military action against certain states . Due to prior success in South Africa , sanctions are an appropriate tool to push countries towards reform while preventing military escalation . 	Sanctions have been an effective long term policy tool in the past .
Arms embargos are a type of sanction that specifically target types of weapons . If a country is being particularly violent towards its people or at risk of civil war , arms embargos can be used to decrease the weapons available to the government or the people . In 1993-1994 an arms embargo was placed on Haiti by the United Nations after a military coup by the group FaDH -LRB- the Forces ArmArmes dHaiti -RRB- . Forces were estimated to shrink from 6000 to 1000 by the time the US invaded in 1994 thanks to the arms embargo . Preventing governments from attaining weapons can be the most effective way of stopping government violence . If they dont have weapons to arm their military , civil war and genocide become more difficult to perpetrate . Arms embargoes have been successful and when used in conjunction with other policy actions can be an effective way of addressing fears of civil war , ethnic cleansing , government violence , and coups . 	Sanctions can block the weapons that are used to perpetrate human rights violations .
Out of town malls offer a better shopping experience . It is easier for shoppers to visit an out of town retail development than an urban or town centre shopping area . Typically , out of town malls offer access roads which are not crowded and plenty of `` free '' car parking . This is welcomed by shoppers and is in contrast to many city centre or high street shopping areas . It is also convenient for shoppers to be able to make their purchases under one roof . In an out of town shopping centre , shoppers are typically able to complete their purchases in one covered mall , and perhaps even in one giant store . This is less time-consuming and less stressful than the more traditional experience of needing to visit multiple different shops . In addition , the interiors of shopping centres are actively managed and so are typically clean , relatively safe and may offer their own entertainment -LRB- e.g . skating rinks , cinemas , live music -RRB- . This is typically less true of more traditional shopping areas , where for example at night poor lighting may be off-putting to some shoppers . As retail outlets in town continue to close , Britain reports growing demand for out-of-town shopping vacancies . 	Out of town shopping malls offer a better shopping experience
Hypermarkets and malls promote competition and so serve consumers well . Because of their huge purchasing power and economies of scale , large retail chains with huge outlets such as Wal-Mart , Tescos and Carrefour can offer products much more cheaply than smaller high-street rivals . The convenience and greater enjoyment offered by out of town malls can also push urban shopping centres into improving their own provision for consumers . This can be seen through improvements in the urban environment , better policing , cheaper parking and more ease of access , and the provision of entertainment and special events -LRB- e.g . farmers markets , foreign markets and street festivals -RRB- to draw shoppers in from a wider area . The public have voted with their feet , in 2003 48 % of everything bought in Britain was bought in out of town stores . 	Malls promote competition and serve consumers well
Out of town centres bring development in their wake . As out of town centres are often built on aesthetically unappealing `` brownfield '' sites , the injection of large investment by a retailer is a vote of confidence in the area and this has a knock-on effect in the local economy . The out of town centre acts as a magnet for further positive development locally . Other amenities and housing will typically start to congregate near the shop and the centre creates a boom for the local economy . This is not only true in the initial construction stages , it will also apply once it is up and running , as retail staff will typically be recruited fairly locally . In Edinburgh , the multi-million development of the out-of-town shopping centre in Livingston is believed to have created more than 1500 jobs alone . 	Out of town centres bring development in their wake .
Sub-Saharan Africa accounts for 24 % of the global disease burden ; but only 1 % of global health expenditure and 3 % of the worlds health workers -LRB- McKinsey and Company , 2007 -RRB- . $ 25-30bn is required to invest in healthcare assets in the next decade to meet needs -LRB- McKinsey and Company , 2007 -RRB- . Public resources are not available , so the private-sector is critical . The private sector can help fill this funding gap ; private-sector actors - including Actis - are planning to invest $ 1.2 bn into Adcock Ingram to provide and supply drugs . The investment will provide key funding to enable research ; and the availability for ART within Adcock Ingrams Anti-Retroviral Portfolio . To combat HIV , and other diseases , investors are required for R & D and the distribution of drugs . In 2012 , only 34 % of the people living with HIV in low and middle-income countries had access to ART showing how necessary such investment is . Furthermore , the private-sector have established partnerships to implement training programmes , improving qualified treatment for HIV , TB and malaria . See further readings : Private Equity Africa , 2013 . ART -LRB- Anti-Retroviral Treatment -RRB- involves drugs which prevent the progression of HIV ; reduce transmission and mortality . According to the WHO 2013 guidelines of people eligible for ART . See further readings : UNAID , 2013 . See further reading : AMREF USA , 2013 ; AMREF , 2013 . 	Funding solutions to combat disease
Private-sector investment will provide crucial training for health professionals , infrastructure , and resources to improve maternal and child health care . Providing affordable maternal care acts as a means for promoting gender equality , and empowerment . Jacaranda Health operate on a business model , meeting the demand , and need , for affordable and high-quality maternal care in East Africa . Through mobile clinics and new maternity hospitals Jacaranda Health is empowering women and children . Within the first year Jacaranda Health provided care for 4,000 women , and changed the lives of 20,000 families . Additionally , free maternal care holds negative side-effects . As Burundi shows , the social policy ideas implementing free maternal health care resulted in overburdening the health resources and understaffed facilities ; and putting vulnerable children at greater risk -LRB- IRIN , 2013 -RRB- . See further reading : Jacaranda Health , 2013 . 	Improving health care for mother and child
The most obvious benefit from high speed rail is that journey times will be less . From London the journey to Birmingham will be reduced from 84 to 49 minutes , Leeds from 132 to 82 and Manchester 128 to 68 . While faster journeys provide some economic benefit the are as much a social benefit of making more places accessible by allowing individuals to spend less time traveling and more doing what they want to when they get there . Hs2 , facts , figures and journey times , 	Faster travel between British cities
Big infrastructure projects often provide a big boost to the economy . HS2 will do this in two ways ; the first will be in the economic activity created in building the line and the estimated 3100 jobs staffing the railway . Much more important however are the wider economic benefits . On a cost-benefit basis HS2 is considered to be high value for money because it will have a 1:2.3 cost : benefit ratio . This ration however could be considerably better if ridership keeps increasing for longer or faster than expected . The overall benefit to the economy is estimated at 53 billion . Department for Transport , The Strategic case for HS2 , , October 2013 , , p. 31 	HS2 would benefit Britains economy
Capacity on the railways is a big problem in the UK . Due to growth since privatisation Britains railways take as many passengers as it is physically possible to do ; more than a fifth of rush hour passengers have to stand . Growth is almost certain to continue as the roads too are at capacity and population continues to rise . The result is more railways are needed . Rail freight meanwhile if forecast to double by the 2040s . The West Coast Main Line is a particular bottleneck for freight with 40 % of UK freight services using the line ; any increase would have to come at the expense of passenger services . Transferring the main rail services to the high speed line would free up the WCML to increased freight and commuter use so HS2 would not just mean an increase in long distance capacity . BBC News , London-bound train overcrowding : 100,000 have to stand , 24 July 2013 , Department for Transport , The Strategic case for HS2 , , October 2013 , , p. 50 , 54 	More capacity is needed on Britains railways
The United Kingdom has been somewhat of a laggard when it comes to high speed rail . In the first half of the century Britains railways were the fastest in the world -LRB- still holding the world speed record for steam -RRB- . But since what we would now consider to be high speed started with the launch of the Shinkansen in 1964 the UK has only marginally upgraded its own railways to 125mph . This means the only high speed line the UK has is the link to the channel tunnel which does not serve a large number of internal passengers . The UK therefore has 113km of high speed rail against 1334 in Germany , 1342 in Italy , 2036 in France and 3100 in Spain . Even much smaller countries such as the Netherlands and Belgium have longer high speed lines . 	Britain is behind the rest of Europe on high speed rail
The UK has a north south divide in terms of wealth and income . London and the South East has for the last few decades done much better than the north ; while industry and mining in the north has declined financial services in the south have boomed . The result is inequality between regions . High Speed Two will help to solve this inequality by increasing connections between north and south . The government suggests that HS2 could provide a boost to the Birmingham city region equivalent to between 2.1 % and 4.2 % of its GDP . For the Manchester city region the figure is 0.8 % -1.7 % , for the Leeds city region 1.6 % . This is because businesses will be more likely to invest there when there is better infrastructure , companies based in London in particular will be much more likely to see the benefits of investing in , or partnering with businesses in the north when they can easily reach those cities . Department for Transport , The Strategic case for HS2 , , October 2013 , p. 99 	Bridging the north south divide
Intercept evidence can be very useful for showing associations between groups of people , which can be incredibly helpful in cases such as conspiracies to link people and events together . It can also expose inconsistencies or falsity in an individuals alibi or personal character if they deny contact with a certain party where intercept evidence proves that they had communicated . However , under the status quo the defence lawyer may not be authorised to intercept evidence which would prove their clients innocence . Allowing such techniques would help to equalise the prosecution and defence ; after all , the aim of court is not to blindly prosecute the defendant , but to ascertain whether he or she is in fact guilty before any prosecution occurs . Widening the array of tools which can be used by both prosecution and defence helps to encourage a wider view of the case and arrive at a more accurate verdict . 	Intercept evidence deals particularly well with cases of conspiracy and criminal gangs which have a widespread network .
Intercept evidence offers the opportunity to speed up court trials and stop wasting time and money by providing information which could lead to a faster , more accurate verdict . Other western democracies who use wire-tap evidence believe that is has or will help to achieve criminal convictions , which demonstrates popular support for it as an effective and swift method of justice . Given that the UK has allowed wire-tapping in some specific cases , it seems to be that it is not the of intercept evidence itself which is viewed as unacceptable by these countries , but perhaps a need to set up a formalised system of the conditions when and where intercept evidence can be used . David Bickford , the former chief legal adviser to MI5 , has stated I know we have lost cases as a result of not using such evidence and other experts have called for the wide use of intercept evidence in court . Allowing the use of intercept evidence in the first place may well ensure that wire-taps are better carried out in a standardised , regulated manner 	Intercepted evidence could be incredibly useful for both prosecution and defence cases in many trials .
Wiretapping helps to make society safer ; we have the opportunity to prevent serious crime and to uphold the principle of prosecution in the justice system by catching criminals and convicting them . For example , in the UK in 2003 , intercepts led to the seizure of 26 tonnes of drugs and also detected wide-scale fraud and money laundering , resulting in 1680 arrests . Without this evidence , these criminals may have escaped the justice system and remained free in society to commit other crimes . It is nonsensical to reject evidence which clearly implicates this individuals who would otherwise be released without charge . As the threat of terrorism escalates and had already damaged many countries , refusal to use this evidence in court puts the public at serious risk and fails to act in the defence of the country in question . For example , if the Norwegian authorities had kept closer tabs on information passed through eBay , they might well have been able to apprehend Anders Breivik before he committed the massacre on Utoya island . Wiretapping is unique in the variety of information it can provide ; it can show locations , times , the relationships between those involved and even record specific details of conspiracies . Accordingly , it can also be used to prove the innocence of somebody who might otherwise be wrongly accused or even wrongly imprisoned . The obvious benefits to this motion demand that intercept evidence and wiretapping should be held as legitimate evidence in court . 	Wiretapping is a highly effective method which helps to prevent serious crime and secure convictions for criminals .
Britain in particular seems to hold a paradoxical set of values in relation to intercept evidence . For example , British courts have allowed intercept material which has been lawfully obtained by foreign police forces . One notable example of this was the conviction of the Merseyside drugs squad chief Elmore Davies when it was discovered that he had a corrupt relationship with drug baron Curtis Warren . The information which led to his conviction was collected on Dutch mobile phones by the Dutch police force , despite the fact that some of the conversations took place wholly within the UK . However this bizarrely was allowed as evidence in a British court , despite the systematic rejection of intercept evidence in other cases . When a country seems to recognise and even capitalise on the potential of intercept evidence in some cases but simultaneously reject it in others , the result is inconsistent legal standards which damage accountability and transparency of the entire state . 	Countries which do not allow intercept evidence have created a contradictory , rather than transparent , set of legal boundaries .
Physics and cosmology explain the development and evolution of the Universe and the bodies within it . Chemistry explains the interactions of substances and the origin of life . Biology explains the development of lifes complexity through the long process of evolution . God , or gods , is a superfluous entity in the discussion of existence ; He is entirely unnecessary to human scientific understanding . At best , believers can point to various missing links in sciences explanation , using God to fill the gaps . The God of the Gaps is a weak God whose domain grows smaller each day as science progresses . Furthermore , there is no evidence of the supernatural existing at all , if that is what God is meant to be . The burden of proof in a debate concerning the existence of something is on the individual making the positive claim . In a debate over the existence of God , it is up to the believer to provide evidence for that belief . The rational position in the absence of evidence is atheism . It is not a positive claim about anything , but is merely the absence of belief in God , which makes sense in the light of there being no positive evidence of Gods existence . If believers claim God lives outside the Universe , or that He can not be empirically identified due to His ethereal nature , then in truth they are saying nothing . Only the natural world exists insofar as humans can demonstrate . The supernatural is pure fantasy . 	Entirely natural theories can adequately explain the existence and development of the Universe and all it contains , making God irrelevant to the discussion of reality :
Many people do not believe in God , and the ranks of atheists are growing every day , particularly in the developed world . It seems that as human knowledge of the Universe expands and as social institutions develop and improve , people feel less dependent upon the crutch of religious faith , and place greater store in reason . If God existed He would make His existence clear to all humanity , not just to a chosen few . In so doing His wisdom would naturally drown out an earthly knowledge , which would obviously be inferior to any that might be furnished by an omniscient being . God has clearly never imparted His wisdom to people since no such divine wisdom exists in any holy book . Were there a correct holy book currently in use , it would necessarily be the only one , because everyone would acknowledge its superiority at once . Reality shows all holy books to be flawed works of flawed men . There is no glimmer of divine spark in any of them , and the only thing that separates most of them from the ravings of madmen is that large groups of people have chosen to believe them . The more reasonable conclusion is one of atheism , and that people believe in God out of ignorance , not revelation . 	If there were a God there would be irrefutable evidence of His existence and people would feel compelled to belief by the fact of it :
A creator god is a logical absurdity , as demonstrated by empirical fact and rational reflection . Certainly God can not exist outside of the Universe , as such a concept is effectively meaningless . In fact , physics explains that when the Universe expanded as an inflating field of space and time as the result of a quantum fluctuation , causality itself arose from the process , making a causative agent prior to the Universe not only unnecessary , but also impossible . Furthermore , the idea of an omnipotent God is logically contradictory because if God were omnipotent He would be able to create an entity greater than Himself , yet that is impossible . The very attribute is logically unfounded , making the conventional explanation of God invalid . Thus atheism , the absence of belief in gods , is the only logically justified theological position . 	The nature of God as it is conventionally described is logically contradictory :
God , like unicorns , has never been shown to exist , and thus it is logical to accept that He , just like unicorns , does not exist . That is why a position like agnosticism makes no sense . There are no agnostics on the subject of unicorns ; there are only agnostics on the subject of God because people tend to be reticent to say they are atheists due to the prevalence of belief of God even in the most secular societies . But fantasy is fantasy , and an agnostic is really just an atheist by another name . Were someone to claim that dragons exist , the person he told it to would not be justified responding saying he did not know whether they exist and that it must be an open question until evidence is presented to corroborate the claim . Rather , he would likely respond with disbelief in the absence of evidence . That is how reasoning works . Thus agnosticism is a philosophically meaningless position . There is either belief or lack of belief , atheism or theism . Opponents of atheism seeking to hide in the nebulous realm of agnosticism , or who claim that because one can not know there is no God one must be agnostic , hold a position that is philosophically bankrupt . 	In reality there are only two theological positions , atheism and theism ; agnosticism is nothing but timid atheism :
It seems as if life goes on whether God exists or not . Theologians , philosophers , and laypeople have been fighting both in academia and on the actual battlefield over the question of Gods existence , yet in all the centuries no definitive answer one way or the other has been given by either side . It seems there is little value to belief one way or the other , so arguing for Gods existence seems simply to be a waste of time . If God were proved to exist , or not to exist , little in life would change at all . Thus a position of atheism serves to relieve the hassle of pointless debate . 	Even if atheism was wrong and God did exist His seeming lack of interest and interaction with the Universe as far as humans can perceive means his existence is irrelevant :
The reason people believe in God and why religions have formed can be explained perfectly well by natural processes and psychology . Religion is an outgrowth of humans brain architecture developed through the process of evolution ; it developed as a by-product of other useful cognitive processes . For example , survival capability is promoted by an ability to infer the presence of potentially hostile organisms , the ability to establish causal narratives for natural occurrences , and the ability to recognize that other people are independent agents , with their own minds , desires , and intentions . These cognitive mechanisms , while invaluable to human survival and communal development , have the effect of causing humans to imagine supernatural purposefulness behind natural phenomena that could not be explained by other means . No gods are required to explain religious belief , so the existence of such belief is no reason to believe in such beings . Religion was a cradle during mankinds childhood and adolescence . The time has come to grow up as a species and accept that there are no gods . 	entirely natural theories can adequately explain belief in God and the development of religions , so an existent God is superfluous to the understanding of the phenomenon :
If God , or the gods , were good there would be no evil in the world . Disasters would not kill millions of innocents , disease and hunger would not claim the lives of children every day , war and genocide would not slaughter people indiscriminately as they have done for countless bloody millennia . The world is awash with blood , pain , and suffering . No loving God would make a world so imperfect and troubled . The worlds ills are perfectly explained by the natural , amoral development of the Universe , of life , and of humanity . The reality of the Universe , however , is incompatible with a God of goodness , as He is conventionally described by todays predominant religions , which stem from the Abrahamic tradition . 	If there is a benevolent deity , then there should not be the kinds of evil observable in the world and He would likely show more interest in His creation than He appears to have done so far :
As mentioned above , the Human Rights Council consists of some the worst human rights abusers in the world . The NGO UN Watch has accused the HRC focusing almost exclusively on alleged human rights abuses by Israel to the exclusion of almost every other country . There have been widespread allegations of corruption in UN bodies . It is for these reasons that the US long refused to pay its full dues to the United Nations and threatens to do so again in future , as well as withholding funding from UNESCO in 2011 after it voted to recognise Palestine as an independent state . 	Many UN bodies are corrupt or compromised .
The UN displays all the worst traits of bureaucracies the world over . The General Assembly is little more than a forum for world leaders and ambassadors to lambast each other . The Security Council is systemically unable to take decisive action in many of the worlds trouble-spots due to its outdated permanent membership structure , which gives five nations a totally disproportionate power to prevent the world body from acting against their interests . In the UNs 65 years , the veto has been used nearly 300 times . 	UN decision-making procedures are very inefficient .
Despite the development of the concept of human rights in the post-war world , the UN has totally failed to protect the rights of citizens , ethnic minorities , women and children . It has stood by during episodes of genocide in Cambodia , Rwanda , Congo and Yugoslavia among many others , tolerates some of the worlds worst dictatorships as members , and does nothing to improve the situation of women in developing nations . Indeed , where UN peacekeepers have been sent into war-torn countries , they have sometimes been guilty of the most horrendous human rights abuses themselves . As of 2011 , the UNs Human Rights Council itself is comprised of members such as Saudi Arabia , Cuba and China . 	UN ignores or enables human rights abuses .
The major economic , political and trade issues around the world are almost all dealt with either through bilateral agreements between nations or by specialised bodies set up for that purpose the World Bank , IMF , EU , ASEAN , NATO , WTO and so on . In all of these fields the UN is little more than an irrelevance . Even where the UN does get involved in international affairs such as in the Libyan crisis of 2011 it is other bodies , in that case NATO , which serve as the vehicle for international cooperation . 	Most international co-operation can takes place outside UN framework .
The UN was set up with the express purpose of preventing global wars , yet it has done absolutely nothing to prevent them . Indeed , the UN has often served merely as a forum for countries to abuse and criticise each other , rather than resolve disputes peacefully . In some cases , such as the 2003 invasion of Iraq , UN resolutions have arguably been used as a justification for wars , rather than to prevent them . Research shows that the number of armed conflicts in the world rose steadily in the years after 1945 and has only begun to plateau or fall since the end of the Cold War . 	: Main purpose of UN , to prevent war , has clearly not been achieved .
In most cases , pornography is not entered into willingly . Similarly to prostitution , the sale of ones own body and ones dignity is so drastic that consent is often not sufficiently informed to be legitimate . There are patriarchal structures in society that force women into these industries , particularly when they are vulnerable and this seems to be a good last resort . This leads to a loss of integrity , a strong stigma in society , and most importantly , abusive conditions in the production process . As well as high risks of unwanted pregnancies or sexually transmitted diseases , violent sex practices and abusive conditions after filming often occur -LRB- Lubben -RRB- . Furthermore , the harms of pornography do not exclusively affect the consenting participants . Other women across the world who are not supporting this industry are equal victims of society and the norms promoted by pornography of how women should be , and how it is acceptable to treat them . These people have not consented . Lubben , Shelley . Ex-Porn Star Tells the Truth About the Porn Industry . Covenant Eyes . 28 October 2008 . 	The feminist movement should not allow women to sell themselves
The US was planning for a massive invasion of the Japanese Home Islands -LRB- Operation Olympic -RRB- . Nine divisions were to land on the southern Japanese island of Kyushu . However the Japanese had ten divisions in southern Kyushu by August , and 600,000 troops on the whole island . The US army widely disseminated a figure of half a million casualties for the conquest of Japan . This was however only the figure for public consumption and some calculations went much higher . On top of the US losses the same amount and probably considerably more Japanese deaths would have to be added . The estimates of US losses were so bad that atomic bombs were actually considered for use in clearing the landing beaches . Chief of Staff George C. Marshall argued We had to visualize very heavy casualties unless we had enough atomic bombs at the time to supplement the troop action . Invasion was therefore not really an alternative to the A-bomb use at all . Although the use of the bomb in a battlefield situation might be more justifiable that it was considered shows the ignorance of the radiation effects that might well have been a disaster for US forces as well as Japanese . 	The continuation of a conventional war would have been much costlier than an atomic attack
From late 1944 Japans defeat was certain . The Japanese leadership knew this , but this knowledge did not equate acceptance nor did it translate into action . The Americans felt that some sort of game changer was needed to push the Japanese into surrender . According to Henry L. Stimson We , -LSB- the administration -RSB- felt that to extract a genuine surrender from the Emperor and his military advisors , they must be administered a tremendous shock which would carry convincing proof of our power to destroy the Empire . The United States Strategic Bombing Survey reckoned that to cause equivalent damage done by the Atomic Bombs using conventional weapons would require 345 B29s . However it is not the fact that the Atomic bombs saved hundreds of B29 missions that is the crucial element . That is the sheer terror that the destructive power of the atomic bombs . This made the Atomic bombs of a different order to any number of conventional B29 missions and was a crucial factor in bringing about the Japanese surrender . If the fact that a city could be levelled in a single night could make the Japanese surrender they would have done so many months previously , and many times over . Important members of the Japanese government agreed with Stimsons assessment of the importance of shock . Prime Minister Suzuki said The atomic bomb provided an additional reason for surrender as well as an extremely favorable opportunity to commence peace talks . I believed such an opportunity could not be afforded by B-29 bombings alone . 	The use of atomic bombs was the only was to persuade Japan 's rulers to surrender
There was no possibility of keeping nuclear weapons under wraps ; scientists from several countries had been working on them . They were ripe for discovery . Robert Oppenheimer pointed out it is a profound and necessary truth , that deep things in science are not found because they are useful ; they are found because it was possible to find them If Atomic bombs were going to be developed anyway there was a compelling reason to be the first to own these weapons , even to be the first to use them . Deterrence , would not work if suspected to be a bluff or a dud , having used the bomb twice it could not be doubted that the US was willing to use it again in extremis . The cost of building the bomb was enormous . At 2.2 billion dollars the Manhattan project cost about the same as the drive to get to the moon in the sixties , but the comparison is not adjusted for inflation . The vast majority of the cost , and of the 130,000 employed in the project , was not in the development but in the building of the factories to produce the fissile material . The opportunity cost of that 2.2 billion is surely huge , how many more bombers and tanks or how many more medicines and bandages could it have bought ? Not using the bomb and squandering that investment would bring that opportunity cost to life ; the question is not just how many would die in months more war but how many might not have to build something unused . 	The United States need to maximise the effectiveness of its atomic weaponry program before it could be compromised
The Chagos Islands have been excluded from almost every human rights treaty from the Geneva conventions -LRB- III/IV -RRB- , the Convention against Torture , through to the Statute of the International Criminal Court . Resulting in what Peter Sand calls a kind of human rights black hole which has enabled rendition flights to pass through the base . This is possible because the British government claims they have no permanent inhabitants . Sand suggests the fiction of the unpopulated archipelago , staunchly defended by the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office -LSB- FCO -RSB- , will inevitably come back to haunt its authors in the very near future . With the islands being uninhabited they are not entitled to an Exclusive Economic Zone under the UN Law of the Sea . Britains claim to the islands as a whole is also made more tenuous . Harris , Peter , Review Article : Not just a military base : Reframing Diego Garcia and the Chagos Islands , , 110/440 , pp.491-99 , 2011 , p. 496 	A human rights black hole
Coca chewing is hugely prevalent amongst the peoples of the Andes , and their social relationship with it is akin to that of ours with coffee in Western nations . This is why so many nations in this region can not and simply will not ever conform to any international ban that calls for phasing it out . The custom of chewing coca leaves may date back as far as 3000 BC in the region , and so hugely pre-dates cocaine consumption , and thus should n't be bundled with it or banned on the grounds that cocaine is banned . Coca has also been a vital part of the religious traditions of the Andean peoples from the pre-Inca period through to the present , being used ` to communicate with the supernatural world and obtain its protection , especially with offerings to the Pachamama , the personification and spiritual form of the earth . ' All South American countries have signed several declarations by the Union of South American Nations -LRB- UNASUR -RRB- that acknowledged that the chewing of coca leaves is an ancestral cultural expression that should be respected by the international community . The international discouragement of the practice of chewing coca leaves and the prohibition on its use by Andeans when they travel or reside abroad can thus be seen as a violation of their indigenous religious and traditional rights , and therefore is not acceptable on a moral level . 	Coca production can be justified on cultural grounds
Millions of people in South America chew coca leaves , so this practice can not simply be wished away . Moreover , it currently acts as a vital income source in many impoverished areas of the Andes . Pasquale Quispe , 53 , owner of a 7.4-acre Bolivian coca farm , explained to the New York Times in 2006 : Coca is our daily bread , what gives us work , what gives us our livelihood . Previous attempts to eradicate coca cultivation in Bolivia harmed the poorest farmers there and led to significant social unrest . When it is allowed , however , coca cultivation can actually have economic benefits . Peasant cultivators in the Andes have indicated their belief that coca chewing helps increase production in agriculture , fisheries and mining . The legalization of coca cultivation globally would allow for the expansion of these economic benefits . The coca leaf may have uses as a stimulant and flavouring agent in drinks -LRB- in which it is currently used to a limited extent in the West -RRB- , but also in the expansion of the many domestic products currently in use in the Andes , including syrups , teas , shampoo and toothpaste . It may also have a use as a general anaesthetic . Only the legalization of its cultivation globally will allow these product and economic potentials to be fully realized and allow humanity to reap the full rewards of the coca plant , rather than simply being limited by the fear and stigma surrounding its illegal use in cocaine . 	Legal coca cultivation would enhance economic growth in developing states
The coca leaf , in its natural state , is not even a narcotic , even though the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs considers the natural leaf to be so . However it only truly becomes a narcotic when the paste or the concentrate is extracted from the leaf to form cocaine . The simple coca leaf , by contrast , only has very mild effects when chewed and is different from cocaine . In 1995 the World Health Organisation found that the use of coca leaves appears to have no negative health effects and has positive therapeutic , sacred and social functions for indigenous Andean populations . It may even be useful in combating obesity , and there is no evidence that coca use is addictive . At worst , it is comparable to caffeine in terms of its effect on its consumer . Therefore there are no significant health reasons behind this ban on the cultivation of coca leaves for their chewed consumption in its traditional form . 	Coca chewing is not equivalent to the consumption of hard drugs . It is no more harmful than drinking coffee .
Direct cash transfers can obviously be done very simply through simply handing out cash but this is clearly open to corruption . Instead money should be sent directly to the poorests bank accounts . In India the proposal is that the payments will be linked to the new biometrics based ID system that assigns a unique number to everyone based upon physical traits -LRB- although this is not yet fully implemented -RRB- this will reach the whole population including those who currently have no identity papers . This will enable those who get these ID to set up a bank accounts to enable the cash to be transferred to them as it will in effect be giving them with new ID . 	Government money can go directly to bank accounts
One of the reasons why poverty does not get eliminated is that it is governments who provide the subsidies that are intended to do just that . Many countries spend their money for subsidies poorly , for example in Indonesia before fuel subsidies were combined with cash subsidies in 2005 the top income decile received more than five times the amount of fuel subsidy as the bottom decile making the policy highly regressive despite it being politically sold as a subsidy to the poor . No matter the intention such subsidies are clearly not fair . When the government provides lots of different subsidies for different things ; fuel , food , housing etc . , and especially when some of them are universal , it is clear that it will never be possible to distribute the money fairly on the basis of need . 	Giving money to the poor is the fairest way of eliminating poverty
Most methods of attempting to eliminate poverty through state intervention are bureaucratic and inefficient and therefore inevitably are not very helpful . The subsidies India has previously provided to the poor is a case in point . In reference to food subsidies that provide for a 50 % subsidy for those below the poverty line a 2010 study by the Asian Development Bank found that in rural areas 73 % of recipients were above the poverty line so should not have been receiving the subsidy . Providing money directly into bank accounts on the other hand is efficient as it is transferred electronically and can be set up to transfer without any human intervention . For the same reason it is very difficult to embezzle because it is going straight to a bank account from central government funds without passing through anyones hands . 	Providing money directly is efficient and eliminates corruption
There are very real concerns that ISPs have a commercial interest in guiding people away from certain sites especially when those sites provide services or products for nothing when the ISP or a related company charges for a competing product . File sharing more generally is an obvious target . The example of Comcast against NetFlix and other file sharing sites is simply the most obvious . There are also concerns about the impact on objectivity more generally ; the Internet works most effectively as a tool because it is , by definition cross-referencing . Although there are many mistakes on many sources as a whole it is possible to reach something resembling the truth . Essentially , We need freeware , we need shareware , and we need open access . People need to be able to trust sources that they can find on the internet , rather than have them controlled in a small number of hands or by the government . Making some sites more accessible than others reduces users choice and their ability to check multiple sites so preventing this cross-referencing . A useful overview of some of the more notorious examples can be found . Bob Gibson , Executive Director of the University of Virginias Sorensen Institute for Political Leadership , on the Charlottesville , VA , politics interview program Politics Matters with host and producer Jan Madeleine Paynter discussing journalism 	Threats to Freeware , Shareware and Objectivity
As things stand there are relatively flat rate services . The concern is that ISP would charge higher rates for full Internet access or act to ensure that their own content arrived seamlessly and smoothly , while that of competitors was delayed or poorer quality or that higher bandwidth applications end up with a higher price-tag . This is of concern both to end users and to the producers of content . There are very real concerns here , as a result , about the impact this has on freedom of expression . The best way to avoid censorship either commercial or political is to ensure that it remains impossible to achieve in the first place . Once it becomes possible to give preference to some forms of content or points of origin , then commercial censorship at least becomes a great deal easier . 	Risk of a two-tier Internet
It is the interventions that take a long time to succeed , such as Kosovo , or even fail such as Somalia , or those where many people do not buy into the justification such as Iraq that are remembered . However this forgets that there have also been many small successful interventions and sometimes the threat of intervention is enough . Sierra Leone is the forgotten conflict of Tony Blairs premiership in the UK . In 2002 Britain sent 800 paratroopers into Sierra Leone , originally just to evacuate foreigners from the country but became an intervention when the British helped government forces drive out rebels which may have saved many lives . However it may also have emboldened Blair to help with intervention in Iraq . This example also shows that it is important to have support on the ground as the British were seen as being legitimate and there was a functioning government who could do the rebuilding . Where this luxury does not exist it is important not to do as happened in Iraq and disband the civil service and prevent those natives who are qualified from running the country even if they may have been implicit in the previous regimes actions . Where possible as little force as possible should be used . In Libya NATO only committed airpower and supplied weapons so keeping the conflict as much a domestic affair as possible . Slowly as it becomes accepted that interventions will happen the threat will become enough . Sudan may well in part have accepted the secession of South Sudan due to the US backing of the peace deal in 2005 . 	Interventions can be small and successful .
States violate their right to non-intervention through systematic human rights abuses by violating the contract of their state . States derive their rights of control and on the monopoly of violence through what is called the social contract . A state gains its right to rule over a population by the people of that state submitting to it their rights to unlimited liberty and the use of force on others in society to the state in return for protection by that state . The individual is sovereign and submits his rights to the state who derives sovereignty from the accumulation of an entire populations sovereignty . This is where the legitimacy and right to control a population by force comes from . When a state is no longer protecting its people , but rather is systematically removing the security and eroding away the most basic rights and life of those citizens , they no longer are fulfilling the contract and it is void , thus removing their right to sovereignty and immunity from intervention . The necessity of intervention in such a case comes from the desperation of the situation . Regimes that use the machinery of the state and their enriched elite against their populations hold all the wealth , power and military might in the country . There is no hope for self-protection for individuals facing a powerful , organized , and well-funded national army . In such a case , the sovereignty of the individuals need to be protected from the state that abuses them . Human rights abuses provide the legal breach of trust that nullifies the national sovereignty of a state and obligates the international community to act to protect them . 	National sovereignty ends when human rights are systematically violated .
The use of force sends a strong message to oppressive regimes that their behaviour will not be tolerated . Human rights abuses happen around the world because there is no mechanism to stop it . Oppressive regimes thrive simply because there is no real , coherent deterrent to their abuses . Sanctions target their populations not their personal enrichment they gain through siphoning off money from domestic industry , diplomatic sanctions have no tangible impact on states and peacekeepers are useless when there is no peace to keep . The only true deterrent to regimes around the world is the danger that a strong military rival from outside will intervene and stop them and remove them from power . Sending a strong message that the international community can and will intervene in the cases of human rights abuses seriously increases the costs in regimes ' cost-benefit-analysis of state behaviour and deters them from committing human rights abuses for fear of military defeat from abroad . 	This deters future human rights abuses .
Human rights abuses are a matter of concern for all of humanity and all humans are morally obligated to protect against them . Where in the world you are born is arbitrary and derived simply based on luck . There is nothing that differentiates human beings in separate countries other than the luck of the draw of which borders they happen to be born within . The difference in rights people deserve to have are therefore not in any way morally justifiable by the country they happen to be born in , and commitment to human should not change by the crossing of borders . The logic behind the UNDHR and human rights as a whole is the idea that random and uncontrollable criteria such as birthplace should not impact on the most fundamental tenets of humanity : the right to life and the dignity all human beings deserve . This comes from a veil of ignorance where all people , unknowing of whom they will be or where they will be born , would morally choose to have their rights protected by external forces if their state was incapable or unwilling to do this . This objective moral viewpoint sets the standard of moral imperative and obligates the international community to act to protect human rights by any means necessary . We have a moral obligation to protect the human rights of all individuals by any means necessary to uphold our moral integrity and fulfill our obligation as humankind . 	There is a moral obligation to protect fellow human beings .
All humans benefit from the protection of the human rights of others . For example , a society which guarantees the security of person for all its inhabitants means every individual can feel assured of their safety and thus live a happier and more productive life , whereas in a society where this was not guaranteed to all , everyone would have to live in fear of their person being violated in the present if they can not guarantee their own security , or in the future if they should lose the ability to protect themselves which they may enjoy in the present . This fear would lower the quality of life for all , and make society worse . Therefore , it could be argued that , even if fundamental human rights do not exist , it is still beneficial for us to believe in them and protect them , as we are all better off as a consequence . This applies internationally as well ; the conception of universal human rights which everyone possesses has meant that many modern instances of humanitarian disasters , such as the 1984-1985 famine in Somalia , have been met with a vigorous response by nations , groups and individuals concerned with human rights , helping to alleviate the human suffering there . This can be compared to historical examples in times when there was less concern with universal human rights and where therefore much less action was taken to alleviate famines and human suffering , such as occurred in the Irish Potato Famine between 1845 and 1852 . de Waal , Alex . Famine Crimes : Politics & the Disaster Relief Industry in Africa African Rights and the International African Institute , 1997 Kinealy , Christine . This Great Calamity : The Irish Famine 1845-52 . Gill & Macmillan 1995 	Universal benefits of human rights
People all over the world believe in God . They believe that a higher power watches over them and guides them , and that they will be rewarded when they die for living good lives on Earth . Religion of some kind is a constant in virtually every culture , and there is evidence of religious practice almost as far back as we have evidence for humanity . Faith is its own proof , and the willingness of people to make tremendous sacrifices for their beliefs , even dying for them , demonstrates that they must believe in something that is real . Swinburne , Richard . 1997 . Is there a God ? . Oxford : Oxford University Press . 	Even without proof of God 's existence people still believe , pray , and feel their lives are given meaning through faith .
Nature is marked by clear design . The complexity of the human body , of planets , stars , and galaxies , and even of bacteria attests to the existence of creative agency . It is impossible that such things as interdependent species could come to exist without the guidance of God . Likewise , certain organisms can be shown to be irreducibly complex , meaning that if one were to remove any part of such an organism , it could not function . This refutes the gradualist argument of evolution , since there is no selective pressure on the organism to change when it is functionless . For example , the bacterial flagellum , the motor that powers bacterial cells , loses all functionality if a single component is removed . Besides design , the only explanation of its development is blind chance , which seems less sensible , since in human experience nothing complex can come about without agency . 1 . Ratzsch , Del . 2009 . `` Teleological Arguments for God 's Existence '' The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy . 1 . Behe , Michael . 1996 . Darwin 's Black Box . Glencoe : Free Press . 	The complexity of the universe and of life can not be explained by atheism .
If it is logically possible for a necessary being -LRB- i.e . God -RRB- to exist , then it exists . Whatever one clearly and distinctly to be contained in the idea of something is true of that thing . It is clearly and distinctly perceptible that necessary existence is contained in the idea of God . For this reason , God must exist . One can not conceive of a God in any context other than one of existence . Clearly , He must exist . Malcolm , N. 1960 . `` Anselm 's Ontological Arguments '' . Philosophical Review 69 . 	If it is possible to conceive of an omnipotent , omniscient , and omnibenevolent deity that is the greatest possible being , it must exist . This is possible , and the being is God .
Throughout the ages many people have claimed that they have observed and spoken with God . All the major religions of the world speak of individuals who have walked with God and derived divine insight . These prophets are the authors and subjects of many holy books , such as the Bible and the Quran . The revelations provided in these books can only be the work of God . Gods commandments to act morally , Gods philosophical wisdom , is recorded for any doubter to see . Swinburne , Richard . 1997 . Is there a God ? . Oxford : Oxford University Press . 	Prophets and wise men have recorded credible accounts of direct communion with God .
The probability of life beginning on Earth is tiny . The chemical composition of the planet had to be perfect for the development of life , as did its position of orbit around the sun , since if it had been slightly farther away it would have been too cold for life to develop , while it if had been slightly closer , it would have been too hot . Furthermore , the evolution of human beings , with free will and intelligence , was even less likely . Had the universal constants e.g . gravity , strong and weak forces been different , the Universe would have been very different , and might well have been unable to sustain life . Only through design could the Universe possibly be the way it is , conducive to life on Earth . Davies , Paul . 2003 . `` How Bio-Friendly is the Universe ? '' International Journal of Astrobiology 2 -LRB- 2 -RRB- . 	The chances of life being able to come about on Earth are so infinitesimally small , and that of humans evolving even smaller , that the conditions must have been chosen by active agency , namely God .
The reduction in available services would make arts less accessible to all , and although the demand would still be there , forcing companies to ensure they make a profit will drive ticket prices up and prevent those from poorer backgrounds from being able to enjoy the same cultural experiences as those who are wealthy . Subsidy can ensure that cheaper tickets are available and that the arts remain democratically open to all , regardless of income or social class . It also allows other public institutions which have similar economic problems such as schools and colleges to provide better services for their students , giving them access to better teaching resources and therefore a better quality of education . It would be unfair and inaccurate to assume that the benefits of arts subsidy only go to the wealthy elite , as the focus is on providing arts projects for all members of society . Free and cheap access to the arts is crucial for education . Without subsidy schools and young people would not be able to take affordable music lessons , visit museums or galleries , or to attend plays or concerts , and would thereby be prevented from understanding and enjoying their culture fully . As well as being important for personal enrichment , access to the arts also makes the young aware of their cultural heritage both nationally and in world terms , increasing the likelihood of continued interest in the arts and its creation in the future . 	There would be a social , as well as an economic impact were public spending to the arts to be cut .
If we accept the term ` arts ' to cover museums , galleries , theatres and musical and film projects , then it is clear that without public funding in many countries a large proportion of arts organisations would be lost . Taking the UK as a prime example of what happens when funding for the arts is cut , we can see that of the 1333 companies which applied for funding from Arts Council England in 2010 only 695 were successful . A cut of 100M has meant this number has dropped from the 849 organisations that were granted funding in the previous application process . The Arts Council is responsible for the funding of cultural venues , theatres , galleries and performing arts groups , and this cut to its budget demonstrates the depth of repercussions that occur when the arts cease to be subsidised . There is also evidence to suggest that the American system of philanthropic donations simply doesnt work in the UK , as investment in the arts by the business sector was shown in figures released in January 2011 to have fallen by 11 % . Alan Davey , 2011 , accessed 31/5/11 . BBC News , 2011 , accessed 31/5/11 . 	The cutting of arts subsidies results in a reduction in artistic output of all kinds .
Since the lottery began in Britain in1994 over 25 billion has been given to good causes . Last year -LRB- 2010 -RRB- 16.67 % of the donations made were to arts organisations , the same amount that was given to sport and heritage projects . This money makes up an significant part of many organisations budgets , and stopping this funding whilst still giving to sports and heritage foundations would be discriminatory and unfair . Equal distribution of this public lottery is the only way to ensure that people are being fairly treated when they buy their lottery ticket , even though the good causes their money goes to may not be their primary concern . The National Lottery , accessed 31/5/11 . 	Money from the National Lottery is essential to arts programmes , just as it is to many other organisations in the UK .
It is in the interests of international stability that failing states are rescued before it is too late . Failed states often infect a whole region , as the collapse of Liberia did in West Africa - a problem known as contagion . Neighbouring states back different factions with arms and squabble over resources , such as the diamonds of Sierra Leone and the mineral wealth of Congo . Internally neighbours are destabilised by floods of refugees and weapons from next door . Their own rebel groups can also easily find shelter to regroup and mount fresh attacks in the lawless country just over their borders . Former U.N. Secretary Boutros-Ghali claimed , as his justification for support for failing states , that the U.N. has a responsibility under its Charter to maintain international peace and security amid fears the demise of a state is often marked by violence and widespread human rights violations that affect other states . Intervention prevents this by entailing the establishment of conditions for reconstruction which thereafter provides physical infrastructure , facilities and social services . The ultimate goal therefore of the intervention is to ensure that both the state concerned and the region as a whole require no further military or monetary support . Ratner , S. R. , & Helman , G. B . -LRB- 2010 , June 21 -RRB- . Saving Failed States . Retrieved May 16 , 2011 , from Foreign Policy : Coyne , C. -LRB- 2006 -RRB- . Reconstructing weak and failed states : Foreign intervention and the Nirvana Fallacy . Retrieved June 24 , 2011 from Foreign Policy Analysis , 2006 -LRB- Vol . 2 , p.343-360 -RRB- p. 343 	Failing states can infect a whole region
States should act to help the people of a failing state , as once it collapses no government services will be provided , including law and order . States should work with the UN in leading attempts at conflict resolution , and should engage in subsequent peacekeeping missions and investment in nation-building initiatives -LRB- e.g . funding and organising the reintegration of non-combatants into society , organising elections , building up civil society , creating effective government institutions , etc . -RRB- . The failure of the UN operation in Somalia in 1990 is telling ; the country has not had a functioning central government ever since . Intervention to prevent such outcomes will require both greater willingness to commit funds on the part of the powerful states and a commitment to conflict resolution which has been largely lacking in recent national policy world-wide . CNN -LRB- 2011 , June 21 -RRB- Somalia again is at top of failed states list . Retrieved June 23 , 2011 from CNN Wire : 	States should act to help civilians in failing states to prevent humanitarian crises
Failed states also export dangers more widely , as they often provide an opportunity for drug crops such as Opium -LRB- Afghanistan -RRB- or Coca -LRB- parts of Colombia -RRB- to be grown , processed and traded without fear of authority , with devastating effects both locally and globally . Desperate people may also take refuge in religious or political extremism , which may in time come to threaten the rest of the world . In so doing , failed states often become havens for terrorists , who can find safety in them to plot against the West , to establish training camps for future terrorists , and to build up finance , weapons and other resources with which to mount campaigns . In what was a key claim that later underpinned the 2002 US National Security Strategy and the U.S. War on Terror , Stephen Walt , a professor of international relations at Harvard University , has described failed states as breeding grounds of instability , mass migration , and murder . This can be seen in Somalia , where states in recent years have begun to fear al Qaeda will take advantage of the lawlessness . Other fragile states , such as Niger , Congo and Sierra Leone have radioactive and other valuable minerals which could be very dangerous in the hands of determined terrorists . The USA should work with the UN to strengthen governments so that they can more effectively maintain internal order while controlling their borders and tracking resource-flows . Rotberg , R. I . -LRB- 2002 , July/August -RRB- . Failed States in a World of Terror . Retrieved March 16 , 2011 , from Council on Foreign Relations : Dickinson , E. -LRB- 2010 , December 14 -RRB- . WikiFailed States . Retrieved May 16 , 2011 , from Foreign Policy : 	Failed states are havens for drug-smugglers and terrorists
The United Nations , and its resident body , the Security Council , has both the right and the capability to intervene in countries in order to maintain the peace . Peace in this sense represents more than the absence of bloodshed , but also provides the means by which aid organizations can enter a territory and provide the requisite resources to prevent civilian suffering . The United Nations have proven their efficacy in this area , mandating an intervention in the Ivory Coast in 2003 that sought to prevent the exacerbation of tensions between the government and rebel forces . A ceasefire was eventually brokered in 2007 and the failure of the state averted . U.N. forces in Macedonia during the 1990s were also credited with successfully contributing to the prevention of conflict spill over and having a stabilizing effect in the country . U.N. interventions to prevent the failure of states can and do work . BBC News -LRB- 2003 , February 5 -RRB- UN backs Ivory Coast peacekeepers . Retrieved June 20 , 2011 from BBC News : Kim , J . -LRB- 1998 , July 23 -RRB- . Macedonia : Conflict Spillover Prevention . Retrieved September 9 , 2011 from CRS Report for Congress : 	The United Nations has the constitutional power and capability to intervene to prevent failed states
Jobs are empowerment . Building sustainable livelihoods , and tackling poverty in the long term , requires enabling access to capital assets . A key asset is financial capital . Jobs , and employment , provide a means to access and build financial capital required , whether through loans or wages . When a woman is able to work she is therefore able to take control of her own life . Additionally she may provide a second wage meaning the burden of poverty on households is cumulatively reduced . Having a job and the financial security it brings means that other benefits can be realised such as investing in good healthcare and education . . Women working from home in Kenya , designing jewellery , shows the link between employment and earning an income . The women have been empowered to improve their way of life . See further readings : Ellis et al , 2010 . See further readings : Petty , 2013 . 	The importance of jobs in livelihoods - money
There are often sections of society , in many countries , that on average attend university with less frequency than even other groups with comparable economic means . For example , poorer white Americans are still more likely to attend university than similar poor African-Americans . The reason for this is that the cultural impetus to attend university has an impact on whether people attend , not simply financial means . In the case of the United States there is a perception within inner cities that university is principally for privileged white people This sentiment is pernicious , as it causes people in such areas to not seek university education , even when they might find access to scholarships or loans . The state can ameliorate this problem by eliminating fees . In doing so , it can act to inculcate the notion of university education as a right for everyone , not just the privileged , which serves to break down cultural biases against higher education . The impetus to attend university will benefit these disadvantaged areas by creating an educated populace who can find work in careers other than unskilled labor and tradecraft that currently predominate . It will also aid in rebuilding social connections between these often-isolated groups and the rest of society . Clearly , free university education benefits societal harmony . Allen , Walter and Edgar Epps and Nesha Haniff . 1991 . . Albany : State University of New York Press . -LRB- Allen et al . , 1991 -RRB- . 	In order to foster social equality , the state must actively encourage groups in society without cultures of university attendance to seek higher education
University fees , in countries where they are implemented , are usually quite high . When fees are put in place in countries , many people find it extremely difficult to find the funds to pay for it , leading many people , and even most in some countries , to seek school loans . In the United States , for example , obtaining loans for university is the norm . These loans can weigh heavily on the minds of university students , and put inordinate amounts of pressure to perform well . This pressure can lead to students dropping out . This is quite understandable when one considers the degree of pressure a young person would feel if his school loan was collateralized against his family home . The pressure does not end when an individual graduates , since he must then begin to pay off the debts accrued while in university . This can lead to individuals taking jobs to which they are not necessarily best suited in order to get started on debt repayment immediately . Even still , repayment of loans can take many years , even decades , leaving individuals under the thumb of creditors for much of their working lives . With free university education , everyone can go to college without crushing debt burden , can study what they wish , and can leave with a qualification and no onerous debt obligations . Such a situation is certainly desirable , for it is better for citizens to be able to gain the career opportunities of a university education without being subjected to the torments of crushing debt . Kane , Thomas . 1999 . Washington , DC : Brookings Institution Press . Hill , Christine . 2007 . Still Paying Off that Student Loan . . Available : 	The burden of fees and loans are too great to expect young people to shoulder , particularly for more financially disadvantaged individuals
It is a fundamental right of individuals to experience university and to have access to the knowledge it affords . University offers a huge opportunity . It is a treasure trove of knowledge to be gained and experiences to be had . University provides an opportunity that exists at no other time in an individuals life . It is a time of personal , intellectual , and often spiritual , exploration . In secondary school and in professional life , no such opportunities exist , as they are about instruction and following orders , not about questioning norms and conventions in the same way university so often is . University serves as an extremely valuable forum for different views , which everyone has a right to experience should they wish . A life without the critical thinking tools provided by university is less full because those without it lack the facility by which to unlock all the doors of perception and knowledge laid before them . University experience serves also , in its giving of these opportunities , to shape individuals views of themselves and society , helping to give form to the relationship between citizen and state on a deepened level . The state has a duty to facilitate this development , as its responsibility includes providing citizens with the wherewithal to take meaningful part in the democratic process . A state can only truly be considered legitimate when an educated electorate approves it . Without a proper education , individuals can not be effective citizens . A university education in the modern world is essential to the development of such informed citizens . For this reason , free university is a great benefit to a citizen as an exploration for his own development on a personal level , and with his relation to society as a whole . Key Degree . 2010 . How to Reap the Benefits of College . . Available : Swift , Adam . 2001 . . Cambridge : Polity . 	Individuals have a right to the experience of higher education
In order to guarantee equality of opportunity for all citizens the state must acknowledge the right to university education and to the opportunities such education provides . University education gives individuals many opportunities that will serve them enormously in later life . It does so by providing opportunities to people while they are in university and opens doors for them once they leave . When people are attending college they have the ability to gain exceedingly useful information that they can employ in a future career . Likewise , the people an individual meets while in university can be very advantageous in later life ; as a networking opportunity , university has no equal . The advantages of attending university likewise extend to life after university , particularly in terms of career opportunities . The employment prospects created by a university degree are substantial , and many lines of work are only available to university graduates . People are even hired with degrees not specific to the job they will do , because the degree itself , not the subject studied , is viewed as a signal of an individuals intellectual and professional quality . Without a university degree many paths are permanently denied . Access to the careers and beneficial connections furnished by university education should not be the province of the wealthy and privileged alone . True merit should define the ability to attend university , not the accident of birth . With the institution of fees , access becomes more difficult , and will certainly lead to lower attendance by poorer groups , as the opportunity cost of attendance is increased by higher prices of education . This serves to lock people into the economic strata whence they were born and raised , as getting out is much more difficult when denied access to most high-incomejobs . With free higher education , people have the ability to improve their own future utility , irrespective of their present economic standing . Tribune Opinion . 2005 . Education Paves Way Out of Poverty . . Available : 	Individuals have a right to equal opportunity in order to maximize their personal utility , and to break free from the social strata in which they are born
A university-educated populace is of great value to any state , and provides three main benefits . The first benefit is that it provides extensive economic boons to society . At present , Western countries have a substantial comparative advantage in terms of the production of services and high technology , though this is diminishing gradually as the developing world continues to build up technologically and economically . There is a profound advantage to countries that actively promote a culture of smart economy . By facilitating higher education , through state funding of university study , countries increase the likelihood and quantity of investment in their economies by both domestic and foreign firms , as a highly educated and skilled workforce is a country trait many businesses consider highly desirable when making investment decisions . Economic growth and building competitiveness in the 21 century are thus dependent on extensive investment in education . The second benefit accrued to the state from investment in free university education is the gain in cultural relevance it sees with a highly educated population . Students of the arts provide extensive intangible benefits to society , through beauty in architecture , painting , crafts , etc . . Likewise students of history , literature and classics provide boons in the form of helping society to understand itself and its place and relevance in the world by fostering an understanding of its past . Without free university education , fewer people would be able to dedicate themselves to the study of such subjects , reducing the amount of beauty and culture in society , to its detriment . The third benefit is the development of leaders in society . States function best when the best and brightest have the opportunity to rise to the top . The barrier to entry created by fees and other costs of university will prevent some potentially high-worth individuals from ever reaching levels of success . Free university education allows all individuals to attend university , guaranteeing that the leaders of tomorrow have the chance to show their worth . For all these reasons , it is clear that the state benefits instrumentally from providing free university education to its citizens . Department of the Taoiseach . 2008 . Building Irelands Smart Economy : A Frameworkfor Sustainable Economic Renewal . . Available : http : //www.taoiseach.gov.ie/attached_files/BuildingIrelandsSmartEconomy.pdf 	The state benefits in terms of superior economic , cultural and leadership development from a university-educated populace
Any risk needs to be justified against some benefit . In the absence of any demonstrable benefit then there is no need to tolerate any risk , particularly in the case of a newborn baby who can not express his opinion one way or another and will not be able to do so for years to come . The risks of circumcision have been repeatedly demonstrated . Though they may be rare , they run from septicemia through to blood hemorrhage and heart attacks . There is little research conducted on the long term effects of the procedure ; however there is a growing body of evidence that a surgical complication rate is about 1 in 500 and the post-surgical rate of attrition is believed by many to be higher . 	In any other situation involving minors a precautionary principle would be applied
A report by the Royal Dutch Medical Association noted that there was not a single medical body in the world that could point , categorically to a medical need for circumcision of infants . It further concluded that The fact that this practice is not medically necessary and entails a genuine risk of complications means that extra-stringent requirements must be established with regard to this type of information and advice . Yet this is a practice that is performed around the world by people with little or no medical training and accepted by parents as an instruction from God . Studies from the US suggest that around 230 baby boys die in America every year as a direct result of hemorrhaging following circumcision . 	There is always a risk associated with surgery and taking such a risk for no particular reason is irresponsible
If this is simply a matter of performing a procedure with no apparent benefit to the patient in most cases a young child then it does rather raise the question of Why . If the procedure were , say , cutting off a toe or an earlobe then all involved would require a clear and compelling case for such a practice . There are grown adults that think that cutting off a finger is the next stage up from getting a tattoo or a piercing . At best most people would consider such a practice odd , at worst unstable . However , these are grown adults who have made the decision to mutilate their bodies for themselves and as a statement they feel appropriate . Consider societys reaction if the fingers of unwilling adults were forcibly removed . What about unwilling children ? What about the fingers of babies fresh out of the womb ? The only sane response to such an action would be condemnation and probably an arrest . The logic of this argument does not change if finger is replaced with foreskin . Research undertaken by the World Health Organization found that the overwhelming determining factor in the decision as to whether a boy should be circumcised was whether the father had been . Although the report suggest a correlation with a reduction in the possibility in the spread of AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa it also comments , If correctly planned , increased provision of accessible , safe adult male circumcision services could also increase opportunities to educate men in areas of high HIV prevalence about a variety of sexual and reproductive health topics , including hygiene , sexuality , gender relations and the need for ongoing combination prevention strategies to further decrease risk of HIV acquisition and transmission . Out with this area the rate of adult male circumcision is very low , suggesting that when the individual is of an age to give consent , they chose not to . Performing an act on a child that would not be consented to by an adult except in extremis would seem a fairly reasonable definition of child abuse . 	Cutting off bit of childrens bodies for no apparent reason is simply wrong
The intervention of the state is necessary in order to ensure that aggressive forms of hip hop remain accessible only to adults , especially in neighbourhoods and home environments that are not part of a cohesive , caring community . Some degree of public control over the content of hip hop will also help to preserve the diversity , accessibility of the genre in the face of commercial dominance by violent forms of rap . Mainstream success in hip hop has become synonymous with gangsta rap , and with artists who have backgrounds that lend veracity to their lurid verses . However , many of these supposedly authentic experiences consist of little more than exaggeration and invented personas . When being interviewed about the controversial content of her sons single Fuck tha police , the mother of rapper Ice Cube commented that I dont see -LSB- him -RSB- saying those curse words . I see him like an actor . The existence of pornography attests to the market for forms of media that fulfil base and simplistic human fantasies . Much the same can be said for the violent and cynical content of rap singles . Unlike the relationship between cinema and pornography , however , many commentators appear to regard gangsta rap as being synonymous with hip hop a position as deceptive as a film critic claiming that all movies are inevitably tied to pornography . The significant public profile and poor regulation of hip hop have meant that gangsta rap fans have become the genres dominant class of consumer . The amount of money that fans are willing to spend on singles , albums , concert tickets and associated branded goods means that labels that cultivate relationships with gangsta rappers have become the gatekeepers of the hip hop genre in general . Conscious rappers , who do not glorify violence , along with musicians working in other hip hop genres must work with labels that promote acts containing violent lyrics in order to publish their own music . Either consciously , or by design , the terrain of contemporary hip hop is hostile to musicians who are not prepared to discuss guns , bitches and bling in their work . This constitutes a significant barrier to rappers ability to communicate novel messages and listeners ability to receive them . It could be called a market failure the pervasive public presence of gangsta rap has effectively denied an audience to other rappers . Classification has the potential to maximise the freedom and effectiveness of musical expression by hip hop artists who choose not to trade in brutality and misogyny . The alternative is to allow hip hop to continue to be dominated by businesses such as Death Row Records , Low Life Records and Machete Music . This will lead to hip hop as a medium becoming inextricably linked with violent lyrics and the dubious businesses practices of gangsta labels bosses . Popular disengagement is much more likely under these circumstances , and will actively deny a voice , and opportunities , to musicians with a different perspective on hip hop . 	Defending hip hop artists right to free speech
By creating a historical record through the investigations and trial proceedings , International justice can create a narrative that helps fight denialism over events in the past . It creates an accepted version of events where both victim and accused have had their say . Denialism can be dangerous because it is likely to create perceptions that are likely to make conflict more likely again . For example the post-First World War Dolchstolegende -LRB- stab in the back myth -RRB- was used by the political right in Germany after WWI implied that the German Army had not lost but Germany had only done so due to the civilian leadership . This not only encouraged a belief that Germany could win in another war but also as the accusation was levelled particularly at socialists and Jews helped pave the way for the holocaust . Goldstone , p422 Holocaust Encyclopedia , Antisemitism in history : World War I , , 10 June 2013 , 	Justice is needed to help end denialism .
By prosecuting perpetrators , justice creates a deterrent . The deterrent effect , as accepted in criminal law generally , is likely to make the peace more long standing and stable in the future it will make those minded to perform atrocities think again . If those who committed atrocities get away with it they will be much more likely to plunge the country back into violence . The career of Laurent Nkunda is a good example of this ; he fought in the Tutsi group that took control of Rwanda in 1994 ending the genocide and then was a rebel commander in both Congolese civil wars in which he was accused of atrocities before launching his own rebellion , only now after 14 years as an army commander is he under arrest . Clearly Nkunda being locked up at some stage would have been better than regularly negotiating with him to try and create peace . BBC News , Profile : General Laurent Nkunda , 23 January 2009 , 	Justice is needed for a lasting peace
Universities have to provide a range of courses , some of which are going to be more financially viable than others , that fine . However , investment in one area inevitably means that there are resources not being focused elsewhere . Its not a huge factor but some subjects creative arts , Theology and a few others do represent a back door into universities for those who didnt get the grades to get onto more demanding courses . Those students still need to sleep , study and socialize somewhere in place of those who could have taken their places on Engineering , Medicine , Economics or similar courses had the space been available . By keeping these courses , universities are turning away students for other disciplines and those studying the arts courses are learning in a way that may not be the most productive as mentioned in the previous argument . Its difficult to see who wins . 	Arts degrees limit opportunities for Universities to offer other courses
It is a simple fact that degrees in the Arts offer less earning potential than those in all other sectors -LRB- except Education and social work -RRB- . As well as being an issue for the individual , this affects wider society , as those on lower incomes are more likely to become dependent on the state at some point in their life and are less well placed to stimulate other sectors of the economy through their own consumption . The median earning figure across Arts degrees is , itself deceptive . The median in the US is $ 45,000 but this disguises the lower end of the scale , with 25 % earning $ 30,000 a year or less . Unlike education and social work which at least tend to have the consistency of a government salary , the Arts are also fantastically unreliable as an employment sector . Teachers and social workers may have comparatively low salaries but at least they can be assured of job security . The Arts offers low and unstable wages , frequently at an ongoing expense to the taxpayer , when the jobs exist at all . As a result , encouraging the creative arts through university qualifications places both an initial and , potentially , ongoing cost on the rest of society . It also means that graduates are likely to be destined to long term financial instability because of a decision they made as a teenager . It is difficult to see who benefits from such an arrangement . Arts , , 	Creative arts graduates are rarely well rewarded
The idea that the best place to learn an artform is a classroom is fantastically modern . The idea of teaching them at all is fairly recent . If ever there were an example of those who can , do ; those who cant , teach , then its the arts . Novelists , poets , painters , dancers , composers , musicians and others have been learning from each other as they practiced their art for , quite literally , millennia . Practitioners learning by doing has worked perfectly well for most of history and produced , for example , the extraordinary works of the renaissance or classical art mostly without the benefit of a university degree . All a degree in this area does is extend the period of delusion that an individual is good enough to cut it as a professional artist . Goldman , Jeremy , Actors dilemma : Theatre major vs. No theatre major , 25 June 2012 . 	The Arts should be learnt on the job its a craft
The prospect of celibacy draws sexually dysfunctional men to the priesthood . They hope that by totally denying their sexuality , they will not engage in deviant acts , but unfortunately they often can not overcome their deviant desires . Permitting priests to marry would bring men with healthy sexual desires to the priesthood . 	Celibacy draws sexually dysfunctional men into the priesthood
While celibacy had been encouraged since the beginning of the church , until the beginning of the twelfth century , when it was banned by the Lateran Councils of 1123 and 1139 , Priests in the Western church were permitted to marry . The Bible does not mandate celibacy and , in fact , St Peter , the first pope , was married . Even today within the Catholic Church celibacy is not universal as Eastern Rite Catholics can marry and it is the norm that they do , and there are some Lutheran and Episcopalian ministers who have converted to Catholicism . The true history and traditions of the Roman Catholic Church include the option for priests to marry or at least for married men to become priests . 	Priest have not always been celibate
The number of priests in developed countries is on the decline . In Ireland in 2007 160 priests died but only nine were ordained to replace them . It is expected that the number of priests in Ireland will fall from 4758 in 2008 to 1500 by 2028 . As a result almost 50,000 parishes worldwide are without a priest despite the number of parishes not having risen with the increase in numbers of Catholics . The prohibition on marriage pushes some men away from the priesthood . The requirement of celibacy drastically reduces the pool from which the church can select priests and means that the church is not always getting the best and the brightest . As a result even many within the church believe the demand for celibacy should be ended . 	Celibacy reduces the pool of people wanting to become priests
It is nonsensical to withhold evidence from a jury that might be necessary for them to reach an accurate verdict . Just because their verdict might be more prone to conviction rather than acquittal does not necessarily mean that this is an unfair or even inaccurate conclusion ; given that violent offenders are likely to re-offend , it may illuminate the truth rather than confuse it . Jurors should be allowed to weigh the relevance of previous convictions and compare them with the accusations of the trail at hand . A criminal justice system which currently relies on the ability of the jury to make a decision can not legitimately choose to withhold evidence from them without innately biasing the trial itself . As the UK Governments White Paper states , we want less evidence to be withheld from the courts , on the principle that relevant evidence should be admissible ... magistrates , judges and juries have the common sense to evaluate relevant evidence and should be trusted to do so . If we can not trust juries to decide which evidence is relevant to the verdict and which is not , then the entire use of juries in the criminal justice system should be reconsidered . 	Juries need to have all the information possible in order to reach a fair verdict .
It is unfair that those who repeatedly re-offend should be treated in the same manner as those who have committed one offence ; a singular offence could mark a mistake or accident in the defendants choices , but repeated criminal acts mark a habit and a lack of regret for past crimes . Failing to take past convictions into account can lead to many dangerous offenders being underestimated by the jury , and so released . This is particularly pertinent in cases of child molestation , where child molesters have a particularly high rate of re-offending expected to be even larger than the reported 50 per cent - but only a small proportion of sexual offences against children result in a conviction . This conviction rate , however , does rise for those with a history of prior sexual offences . Under the current conditions , this system is unfairly weighted against the innocent victims of repeated crime . A higher conviction rate , informed by the knowledge of previous offences , helps to reach justice for these victims and their families , as well as promoting justice and the safety of the general public who find it frustrating that so many dangerous offenders are released without appropriate conviction . Moreover , jurors themselves lose confidence in the justice system when they find out that they have just acquitted a defendant who has committed a similar crime before . One notable example of this was series of trials of Kirk Reid , who committed many sexual assaults against women including several instances of rape and who was wrongfully acquitted of his first offence in 1996 . Not only did his victim lose all sense of hope in the justice system she had faced her attacked and been discredited but one of the jurors at the trial who believed that he was guilty went on to criticise the justice system itself . The current system seriously risks acquitting criminals who have already committed similar crimes ; it is time to rebalance the justice system to acknowledge the needs of the victims who suffer through wrongful acquittal of their attackers . 	The current system is unfairly weighted in favour of criminals .
Jurors are frequently affected by media coverage of particular cases , which makes it almost impossible for them to remain impartial in the idealistic way which opposition naively believes possible . This creates a situation where the jury may be more affected by information which they have found out elsewhere for example on the news or in newspapers than the information which is presented to them in court . There have been some cases where jurors search the internet to find the backgrounds to their cases , despite the fact that this is not allowed . This evidently reflects that jurors feel that they have not been adequately informed and so seek facts elsewhere . Given that this need has been reflected by the jurors themselves , the court should give jurors all possible information and bring previous convictions into the open to ensure that they can base their verdict on reliable fact presented in court rather than resorting to sensationalist media . 	Jurors are already aware of information which might bias their verdict .
This motion could allow innocent defendants to mount a stronger case . This is because , if allowed , the previous convictions of prosecution witnesses would be admitted as evidence . In this case , if a prosecution witness falsely claims good character in opposition to the defendant , any falsity could be more easily seen and weighed by the jury . This solves a problem under that status quo where the threat of introducing his -LSB- the defendants -RSB- previous convictions will frequently inhibit him from introducing character evidence about the prosecution witness ; fear that the defendants convictions may weigh against them where the prosecution witness remains untouchable creates a discrepancy in the justice system . However , if convictions on both sides were to be revealed anyway , then neither can falsely claim the character of the other and attempt to convince the jury of false information on this front . 	Defendants who are innocent will be protected
At present in Britain , some previous convictions may be disclosed if they bear a striking resemblance to the case at trial , if the defendant falsely claims to be of good character , or if they attack the character of a prosecution witness . However , different judges invariable interpret these criteria in different ways , which leads to a wavering standard of trail where previous convictions may or may not be revealed . It would be much more efficient and transparent to allow this motion and make court procedures more accessible . 	Occasional disclosure of convictions leads to an inconsistent justice system .
Under the status quo , someone with a terminal illness is offered two choices : death , or to join a trial -LRB- where such trials exist -RRB- . However , when they join a trial they face the possibility that they will be given a placebo , not the drug . Whilst this is probably in the best interest of future patients -LRB- a good clinical trial will determine the efficacy of the new treatment -RRB- , it rides roughshod over the rights of the current patients -LRB- not to be sacrificed for future generations -RRB- and the duty of physicians to act in the best interests of their present patients . There are two consequences here : the first is that it is morally dubious to use the present patients as mere means to an end , rather than acting in their own best interests , especially where , if randomized to the placebo arm the outcome of death is a certainty . The second consequence is a practical one : compliance with the trial is lessened at the point at which patients can take alternative measures to increase their chance of survival . This was best documented during the early stages of the AIDS crisis in the 1980s , where there was evidence of cheating during the trials . People lied or bribed their way into clinical studies ; and shared drugs to dilute the risk of being on placebo . This has the obvious impact of casting doubt on the scientific results of the trials : you can no longer be sure who has taken what , and what other conditions they may have . 1 Schklenk , Udo , and Lowry , Christopher , Terminal illness and access to Phase 1 experimental agents , surgeries and devices : reviewing the ethical arguments , , Vol .89 , 2009 , pp.7-22 , 	It is unethical to force a volunteer to take the chance of being randomised onto the placebo arm of a trial
At a point when all ordinary medical avenues have been expended , and the outcome appears bleak , new treatments still undergoing trials can be seen as the last hope . People are often aware of the existence of currently experimental drugs , they are likely to research into possible cures , and indeed there may have been attempts by their doctor to get the patient onto the trial . However , not everyone who could benefit from treatment is accepted onto a clinical trial : some trials , at some stages , restrict their recruitment to , for example , patients with no complicating factors or other illnesses . It is unethical and cruel to make people live out their last days knowing that there was something that could have helped , but to which access was restricted through no fault of their own : thus , you should allow anyone with a terminal illness access to such treatments . 	It is cruel to deny people the last hope
Testing new drugs is a very expensive process , in 2000 the average cost was estimated at around 86 million for the large scale phase III tests however this is contested and it could be much higher it represents 40 % of pharmaceutical companies R & D expenditures , which since a recent estimated the development cost of a drug can be up to $ 5.8 billion -LRB- due to including failures -RRB- the cost of trials would in some cases then be $ 2billion , which is currently funded by pharmaceutical companies . They fund these tests because it is either impossible , very difficult or very risky to access large markets before testing has been completed -LRB- e.g . in the USA companies are only allowed to sell new drugs off-study , i.e . during trials , at cost -RRB- If you allow all terminally ill patients access to experimental drugs , you reduce the incentive for companies to continue testing their products : they will have access to a large market prior to the completion of testing , and will therefore have no incentive to complete trials , which are expensive and risk finding the product ineffective . 1 DiMasi , Joseph A. et al . , The price of innovation : new estimates of drug development costs , , Vol .22 , 2003 , pp.151-185 , p. 162 2 Roy , Avik S. A. , Stifling New Cures : The True Cost of Lengthy Clinical Drug Trials , , No . 5 , April 2012 , 3 Schklenk , Udo , and Lowry , Christopher , Terminal illness and access to Phase 1 experimental agents , surgeries and devices : reviewing the ethical arguments , , Vol .89 , 2009 , pp.7-22 , 	This reduces the incentive for pharmaceutical companies to complete the testing process
A ban in all public places would be no more difficult to introduce than existing bans preventing smoking in only some public places . As long as people are given plenty of notice of changes , as was done in airports in Saudi Arabia , and the rules are made clear and readily available there should be few difficulties in introducing this ban . 	This ban would be easy to introduce .
The health problems that smokers experience cost taxpayers -LRB- where healthcare is provided by the government -RRB- or the individual -LRB- for private healthcare -RRB- a lot of money . Decreasing the number of smokers as a result of a reduction in both social smokers -LRB- those who smoke when out with friends -RRB- and passive smokers -LRB- those who do not smoke themselves but are exposed to the second-hand smoke of others -RRB- will lead to a decrease in these healthcare costs . This has been reported for example in Arizona , where a study found that hospital admissions due to diagnoses for which there is evidence for a cause by smoking have decreased since the statewide smoking ban , and that costs have thus decreased . 	This ban would lower healthcare costs .
Not being able to smoke in public will make it more difficult for smokers to keep up with their habit . For example , if they are no longer able to smoke in the pub , smokers would have to go outside possibly in the rain or other uncomfortable weather and be away from their non-smoking friends every time they wanted to have a cigarette . So , a smoking ban would encourage smokers to smoke less frequently and maybe even give up . This can be seen in countries already with smoking bans . For example , a study in England found that in the nine months after the smoking ban was introduced , there was a 5.5 % fall in the number of smokers in the country , compared to the much lower fall of 1.6 % in the nine months before the ban . This can only be a good thing , since giving up smoking decreases the risk of death , even for those suffering from early stage lung cancer . 	This ban would encourage smokers to smoke less or give up smoking altogether .
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights -LRB- a list of rights to which the United Nations has declared that all human beings should be entitled -RRB- states that `` Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and of his family '' . More than 50 studies carried out worldwide have found that people are at an increased risk of lung cancer if they work or live with somebody who smokes . Given these very serious health risks , it goes against people 's human rights to be exposed to second-hand smoke when they have not chosen to breathe it in . To avoid this happening , smoking should be banned in public places , so that non-smokers can be sure that they will not have to breathe in second-hand smoke . The Universal Declaration of Human Rights ' , , ` Tobacco Smoke and Involuntary Smoking ' , , Vol .83 , 24 July 2002 , 	Exposing non-smokers to second-hand smoke goes against their rights .
States that possess elephant populations that are currently growing would be eligible , under the new model , to sell their stockpiled ivory . There would be no limit on the amount of ivory sold , provided that the growth rate of the population remained positive . Therefore , the confiscated ivory from poachers and small-scale culls would be eligible to be sold on the international market . All sales would have to go through the environmental agencies of the states ' concerned . 	The proposition suggests all nations with sustainable populations of elephants should be eligible to sell stockpiled ivory
The elephant populations of southern African states are growing rapidly , placing a strain upon the resources of the national parks in which they live . This has necessitated culls with the result that government environment agencies have built up large stockpiles of ivory -LRB- also acquired from animals that died naturally -RRB- , which they are currently unable to sell . Relaxing the CITES ban on trading ivory , subject to careful regulation , would bring much needed cash to the environmental programmes of these impoverished countries , helping them to safeguard the long-term survival of African elephants . The relaxation of the CITES ban in the late '90s was worth $ 5 million for Bostwana , Namibia and Zimbabwe ; as regular income , such a figure would be invaluable for a struggling Central African economy . 	Elephant populations are growing rapidly , straining local resources
Ivory is expensive to store , and degrades over time . It costs Zimbabwe $ 13 million annually to secure its stockpile . The Wildlife Authority in the country is now keen for the moratorium on the international sale of ivory to end in 2016 so that they can benefit from the stockpiling and recoup the costs of storage . Zimbabwe is also believed to be close to the limit of its storage space . It is therefore sensible to allow its sale in order to recoup these expenses and to do so on a permanent , controlled basis , rather than through one-off schemes such as the 1999 sale to Japan . 	Ivory is expensive to store , therefore the stockpiles of ivory confiscated from poachers should be able to sold
Poaching has been effectively eliminated in parts of Southern Africa through efficient game park management and the development of game tourism , which gives local peoples an incentive to protect wildlife as a long-term economic resource . In Kenya , tourism is the third largest contributor to their economy , and 70 % of this is derived from wildlife , but it is still not enough . The Director of the association in Kenya charged with elephant protection , the Lusaka Agreement Taskforce , has admitted mobilizing adequate resources to combat the illegal wildlife trade is a challenge . For this approach to be sustained the parks must generate greater income ; realistically , this can only be done through the sale of stockpiled ivory . Why should they not be able to profit from stockpiled ivory confiscated from poachers or dead elephants ? 	Permitting the sale of stockpiled ivory provides an incentive to clamp down on poachers
A trading ban does not choke off demand for the ivory , but instead raises the price to exorbitant levels , encouraging poaching . Demand since 1989 has been depressed by Japan 's economic problems , from which it is now emerging , while in China ivory is associated with prosperity and is a status symbol ; as the number of wealthy Chinese increases , so too is the demand and price of ivory . Poachers are only going to be further encouraged to disregard the trading ban , whatever the costs . Legitimate , regulated sales would undercut the illegal market and drive the poachers out of business , ensuring elephant populations are protected and remain stable . 	The trading ban has proven ineffective
If a school has a uniform , parents are expected to buy it , and then buy a new one every time their child outgrows the last . This can be expensive . It has been reported that parents in South Africa , Australia , and the U.K -LSB- 12 -RSB- . have to pay a lot of money for their children 's school uniforms , and it is probably the same in other countries too . 	School uniforms are often expensive
School uniforms are often not very comfortable or practical . In state schools -LRB- schools for which parents do n't have to pay fees -RRB- in the U.K. , for example , girls often have to wear dresses or skirts , when they might feel more comfortable in trousers , and boys often have to wear button-up shirts and ties , which can also be uncomfortable for active children . In independent schools , uniforms are often even more impractical and uncomfortable , with blazers or even tailcoats for the children to wear . 	School uniforms are often impractical or uncomfortable
Article 19 of The Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that `` Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression '' . Children 's freedom of expression is restricted by school uniforms , because children who have to wear the same clothing as every other child in their school are not able to express their individuality and creativity . We should get rid of school uniform so that all children can express themselves freely . 	Individuality and creativity should be encouraged
If children are religious , they should be allowed to wear the clothes that express their religion , but school a uniform can often restrict this . Religious beliefs can be extremely valuable and important to many children , giving their lives a great deal of meaning and structure and inspiring them to work hard and behave compassionately in a school environment . Some religions place a great deal of value upon worn symbols of faith , such as turbans , headdresses and bracelets . When a school demands that a child remove these symbols , it inadvertently attacks something central to that childs life . This may cause the child to see her school and her faith as mutually exclusive institutions -LSB- 1 -RSB- . Vulnerable young people should not be forced into an adversarial relationship with their school , as close , collaborative involvement with teaching and learning techniques will greatly effect a childs ability to adapt , learn and acquire new skills in the future . For example , school skirts are often not long enough for Muslim girls , who believe that they should cover most of their bodies . To allow children to express their religions , we should get rid of school uniforms . 	Students should be allowed to wear religious dress
Rather than having school uniform , why not have a dress code instead ? This has all the benefits of uniform without the many disadvantages . While uniforms force all children to wear the same clothes , dress codes give students a lot of choice what to wear . Only a few unsuitable things are banned - for example , gang colors , very short skirts , crop tops , bare shoulders , etc . . 	Dress Codes instead of school uniform
In response to an ever faster news agenda , produced by ever more pressured journalists , sloppiness may be seen as inevitable . As a result , anything that is unlikely to result in legal action may be given a bye . In most situations , that sets the bar way too high . The mere mention of a private citizen in a negative light in a local paper may not be the stuff of national press attention and is unlikely to get far in the courts but can affect that persons standing in their community and with their neighbours in a profound way . Anything that pushes reporters and editors to go that extra step to check their facts they go to print seems like a sensible preventative measure . This could help prevent newspapers citing experts who are not actually expert , a Forbes columnist found that he could portray himself as expert on all sorts of things and get his comments in articles for even very reputable media organisations such as the New York Times without even the most basic of background checks . The knowledge that they may lose both space and credibility in the next edition would seem to be a rather neat way of achieving that goal . 	In an age of declining journalistic standards , forcing editors to get their facts right is a good start .
In many countries corrections or clarifications in newspapers are buried away in the depths of the middle pages and are unlikely to be spotted by anyone other than the most ardent reader . Not only does this defy natural justice but having the correction prominent hits a newspaper for making mistakes as it loses space for a story that would attract both readers and advertisers . Its not unreasonable to expect journalists to get the information right first time that is , after all , their job . Building an entire case on the basis of a misunderstanding , as the Daily Telegraph did recently on the basis of misinterpreting data for fish stocks , can be incredibly misleading and when the correction to it is impossible to find , that misunderstanding remains in the mind of the readers . Once that is multiplied by blog entries comments to others and so on , the retraction would need to be a sizable news story in its own right to correct the misunderstanding . Where mistakes are made and repeated from wire services or promoted as gospel in local often poorly resourced newspapers , the impact on someones reputation can be considerable . Its only fair that their megaphone correcting it should be just as large as that used in the first place . 	There is a sense of natural justice that corrections should come in this form rather than a tiny note .
The right of reply goes a long way in balancing the playing field especially for private citizens who may not be able to afford recourse to the law . It is also simpler and quicker than protracted arguments in court . Finally it respects the readership as a group accepting that they are capable of making a decision over whose version of events is more likely to be accurate the journalist or the respondent . Its a grownup approach to publishing , it acknowledges that newspapers dont get everything right and embraces the idea that the goal is to convey accurate information admittedly belatedly . Its inevitable that mistakes will be made in a world where newspapers are endlessly running up against deadlines and it is only possible to check so much as a result . Instead of entering into protracted disputes or ignoring the rights of the injured party this allows for the readership to make the final decision . This can be true of either private individuals or public figures where , all too often , the issue is not the legal minutiae or exact phraseology of the article but the more general verdict of the court of public opinion . There is also a legally enforced right of reply in Korea , the Philippines , Finland and Brazil among others . By way of example , the full text of the Brazilian law -LRB- translated into English -RRB- is given . A good example of a case that became so complicated the original offence was lost in the haze would be . It is far from atypical . 	It is only fair where something inaccurate has been said to allow for a correction .
Divided Government creates an imperative for compromise , encouraging the parties to work together for the best outcomes . This can help to undermine the more visceral aspects of debate , with the contest for election being left behind in order to focus on governing for the good of all Americans . As a result the greatest American achievements have come when there has been broad bipartisan consensus . There is also a Partisan consideration to seeking divided Government . The more successful two-term Presidents of recent times , Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton , governed with Congress partly or completely controlled by the opposition party . They were able to work with the opposition to pursue the best policy , aiding their re-election hopes by pitching themselves as seeking to compromise , in line with the aspirations of voters , who on the whole prefer divided government in order to promote mature co-operation between the parties . 	Effect on the structure of the main political parties
Eight out of the thirty people indicted by the ICC -LRB- four in the Darfur situation , including Omar al-Bashir , three Lords Resistance Army leaders in Uganda and one in the DR Congo investigation -RRB- are still alive and avoiding justice . An in-house enforcement arm would be more effective at capturing indictees than many of the forces of the state parties , as it is likely to be more competent than many of the under-resourced or under-trained national forces . An in house force would be solely focused on capturing the wanted war criminals so would both be focusing resources and much less likely to be sidetracked by other priorities -LRB- many of which may be influenced by politics -RRB- than national forces . One of the suggested solutions to the failure to capture Joseph Kony and leaders of the LRA is to have greater involvement of peacekeepers ; an ICC force would provide the same kind of help . Van Woudenberg , Anneke , How to Catch Joseph Kony , , 9 March 2012 , 	An ICC Enforcement arm would bring in a higher proportion of defendants in to trial
The remit of the ICC is unlike the remit of any national court . It deals exclusively in crimes so unacceptable there is an international consensus behind their illegality and the need for prosecutions . The parties that signed up to the Rome Statutes reason for the creation of the ICC was that such grave crimes threaten the peace , security and well-being of the world the perpetrators of such crimes clearly need to be brought to book , and to do that they need to be apprehended . The same agreement said the signatories were Resolved to guarantee lasting respect for and the enforcement of international justice if this is the case then there should be agreement on enabling that enforcement by creating an ICC enforcement arm . Again the Rome statute makes clear that the agreement shall not be taken as authorizing intervention by another state . This is why the enforcement needs to be done by a separate international force who could not be considered a threat to any state . Quite simply there is little point in international criminal justice if there is no force to bring the criminals to the court . Preamble Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court , 1 July 2002 , 	An ICC enforcement is a necessity if there is to be international criminal justice
To its critics , the ICC is an organization that can be mocked with Stalins dismissal of the influence of the Pope : how many divisions does he have ? An ICC capable of arresting its own fugitives would become a more credible organization , not only due to the show of competence through the arrests it would lead to more trials , and more convictions , that would help contribute to the acceptance of the ICC as a serious court that is effective at bringing international criminals to justice . A legal institution needs to be effective to remain credible . This would make countries much more likely to cooperate because the ICC would be doing more to help them by providing some of the necessary resources . Henry Kissinger apparently said Who do I call if I want to speak to Europe ? -LRB- he is not sure he said it -RRB- because there is no single European leader , and if the US wants political or military cooperation it calls the UK or France . In much the same way if countries need help apprehending and convicting someone they are much more likely to call in the ICC if it can actually help them catch the wanted person . Perritt , Henry H. , Policing International Peace and Security : International Police Forces , , March 1999 , p. 293 Sobczyk , Marcin , Kissinger Still Lacks a Number to Call Europe , , 27 June 2012 , 	An ICC enforcement arm would make the ICC more credible as an organization
If international criminals are to be caught it needs to be clear that there is an organisation with the responsibility and authority to catch them . This is especially important when the criminal in question is able to slip across borders to avoid the national authorities in one state as Joseph Kony has done as the ICC would be able to cross borders itself and coordinate the response from multiple countries . The importance of an organisation that is able to catch international criminals can be highlighted by the experience of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia where despite a Memorandum of Understanding relating to the detention of war criminals in Bosnia NATO denied it had the power to make arrests so leading to patrols actively avoiding wanted men to avoid a situation in which they might have to engage in arrests . A lack of clarity over whether an organisation can enforce its warrants for arrest results in arrests not being made . Ultimately the ICTY was successful because this situation was resolved with the creation of multinational police forces backed up with traditional NATO military power if necessary leading to the arrest of 126 individuals . Zhou , Han-Ru , The Enforcement of Arrest Warrants by International Forces From the ICTY to the ICC , , Vol .4 , 2006 , pp.202-18 , pp214-6 Ibid , p. 203 	An ICC enforcement arm would be quicker
Monarchs no longer have divine right to rule.For centuries the main justification of royal authority was a religious one . Catholic rulers had their legitimacy supported by the Papacy , Protestants rulers often headed their own state churches ; in both the monarchs rightful authority was preached in church every Sunday , while the ruler in turn protected a single national church . Currently , the Monarch is termed ` the defender of the Protestant faith ' . She or he is required to be a member of the Church of England and is not allowed to marry a Catholic . Today societies are increasingly multi-faith , indeed , fewer than 5 % of adults in the United Kingdom are practising Anglicans , and many people have no religion at all ; hardly anyone believes the monarch has a spiritual right to exercise authority . Indeed , those whose religion differs from that of the monarch -LRB- often ethnic minorities -RRB- may be actively alienated by the way in which a particular faith seems to be privileged . 	There is no divine right to leadership or privilege
The costs of monarchy are unjustifiable.Typically monarchs and their immediate family receive substantial amounts of money from the state to maintain luxurious lifestyles , complete with servants , expensive holidays and hobbies . The state also spends a great deal to maintain and run palaces and other royal residences , which are seldom accessible to the general public who support them through their taxes . In the UK what is officially termed as ` Head of State Expenditure ' amounted to 40 million in the 2007-8 financial year . However , this excludes the cost of security for the numerous family members and residences . Although the security costs have not been confirmed , it is estimated that it exceeds 50 million a year . 	Supervising and protecting a monarchy is an unjustifiable public expense
The alternative to the monarch is obvious . Many states around the world have Presidential systems , either like the United States where the President fulfils both the role of the Head of State and the Head of Government combining the two roles . Or as in Italy or Germany where there is both a head of state -LRB- usually president -RRB- and a head of government -LRB- usually Prime Minister , although Germanys is Chancellor -RRB- where the head of state is respected but is mostly a ceremonial role . Finally there may be both a head of state and head of government where both are powerful as in France . Therefore the head of state can still be in whatever role the state requires . Most importantly in all these cases the head of state is elected rather than simply gaining the position on account of birth . 	A presidential position enable the democratic selection of a head-of-state
The concept of Monarchy is undemocratic . If the monarch retains any significant political powers , as they do in Belgium and the U.K. for example , these are unjustifiable . Why should the opinion of just one person , in office purely by accident of birth , be able to influence the outcome of elections or call a government . Legally , in the UK the Monarch has the power to ; choose the Prime Minister , dismiss ministers and governments , dissolve parliament , refuse to agree to legislation passed by parliament , pardon convicted criminals , declare a state of emergency and raise a personal militia . And in some countries like Saudi Arabia they have much more absolute power . A recent example where the Monarch had a role in the United Kingdom was within the 2010 elections where no party achieved an overall majority , the Queen therefore had to sign her approval for the Conservative and Liberal Democrat coalition . 	Monarchies , no matter how vestigal , are undemocratic
Nkwame Nkurumah , one of the famous African heroes said Africa must unite or perish . This has been taken up by the African Union which is calling for integration across the continent -LRB- 1 -RRB- . Widening and deepening the EAC will therefore shine a light to the ideology of Pan Africanism . Bringing more African states together under one bloc with the same vision and institutions will help people to work together regardless of ethnic or cultural differences . Citizens will feel more East Africans rather than citizens of a particular country as every citizen of the EAC member state is allowed to freely travel in the region with no difficulties or discrimination as a result of the East African Communitys freedom of movement -LRB- 2 -RRB- . This will therefore encourage other blocs like the ECOWAS and SADC to actively perform and widen hence creating a more united Africa . -LRB- 1 -RRB- African Union , Celebrating Pan Africanism and African renaissance , , 10 May 2013 , -LRB- 2 -RRB- East African Community , Towards a common market , Annex on the free movement of persons , , 	It will serve an example of Pan-Africanism and encourage many to join the movement .
Widening the East African Community , will help enlarge the common market , increase production and improve regional trade as people will be able to freely do business across more than five countries . Prior to Rwanda and Burundis membership to the bloc in 2004 , Kenyas exports and imports to the EAC were Kshs 64 billion and Kshs 3 billion respectively this however increased after the two countries joined creating a single market of 133.5 million people . In 2009 Kenyas exports had risen to Kshs 90.5 billion and imports to Kshs 12.5 billion -LSB- 1 -RSB- . Ethiopia , DRC and South Sudan are all mineral rich countries and are big potential markets for East Africa . Welcoming them to the community is predicted to double the production , imports and exports among member states -LSB- 2 -RSB- due to policies policies like the EAC trade facilitation , customs union and competition policy and law -LSB- 2 -RSB- . -LSB- 1 -RSB- Mary , Odongo , Institute of Economic Affairs ; Towards an East African Community common market , , 30 Jan 2011 , -LSB- 2 -RSB- Ernest & Young , The East Africa boom , , -LSB- 3 -RSB- East African Community Customs , market size , access and trade policy , , 	Economic Development will be boosted in the entire region .
Widening the East African Community will help provide a strong force and voice against insecurities , conflicts and insurgencies that have torn apart much of the region . The current EAC member states have been at the fore front of maintaining peace and security in the region , with Burundi , Kenya and Uganda sending troops to Somalia and Rwanda sending troops to Darfur and CAR . In March 2012 , the USAID assessment on East Africa regional conflict and instability highlighted that the revival and expansion of the EAC would favour a vision of promoting peace in the region -LRB- 1 -RRB- pointing out the Lamu project aimed at creating a transport corridor linking South Sudan to northern Kenya and the coast . Widening the bloc will make it easy for member states to support their peacekeeping missions through the East Africa community military command and also help reduce interstate invasions like Sudan and South Sudan or Rwanda and DRC as they will now be united with more closely aligned interests . -LRB- 1 -RRB- USAID , East Africa Regional conflict and instability Assessment , , March 2012 , 	Conflicts and insecurity in the region will be resolved .
Unlike other regional blocs in Africa the EAC has been keen to work on the improvement of education among member states . It has policies such as the introduction of the inter University council of education to ensure the quality of University education , and an ongoing process of harmonising education curricula in all member countries -LRB- 1 -RRB- . However , Africa still remains the continent with poorest quality of education and has the lowest skilled/educated labour . A large number of children fail to access basic education -LRB- 2 -RRB- . Enlarging and deepening the EAC will therefore enhance education standards on a large part of the African continent ; such policies will lift weak academic institutions in DRC , South Sudan and Somalia which are typical of their poor education systems . -LRB- 1 -RRB- East African Community Education , Harmonisation of education and training curricula in East Africa , -LRB- 2 -RRB- Kevin Watkins , Narrowing Africas Education deficit , January 2013 , 	Education standards will be improved across the region
Politics is about action . The German government has to take some action on the issue of NSA surveillance and German privacy or it will look weak . Interior Minister Hans-Peter Friedrich went to Washington in July but was accused of returning empty-handed and having not moved a single step forward on any of the key points . The stonewalling by the United States provides an opportunity for opponents to Damage Merkels new government as well as potentially to show gaps between the SDP and CSU . Merkel has been invited to visit Washington at some point in 2014 by President Obama , Merkel cant afford for her own diplomacy to have as little result as Friedrichs . Deutsche Welle , SPF , Greens slam Interior Minister Friedrich after US surveillance talks in Washington , , 13 July 2013 , Reuters , Obama invites Merkel to visit during call about trade , NATO , 8 January 2014 , 	Doing nothing makes Merkel and Germany look weak
The German government has been working towards a no-spy agreement with the United States . It however looks unlikely that such a deal will every become a reality with officials saying we wo n't get anything and the Americans lied to us about the chances of an agreement . German officials have also been disparaging of Obamas new announcements on restrictions of the NSA ; Roettgen , a member of Merkels party says The fundamental question is , should security services be able to do everything theyre technically able to do , Obama essentially said yes . If Germany cant get an agreement then it has no choice but to act unilaterally . Medick , Veit , and Meiritz , Annett , The Americans Lied : Trans-Atlantic No-Spy Deal on the Rocks , , 15 January 2014 , Donahue , Patrick , Germany Says Obamas Spying Pledges Fail to Address Concerns , , 20 January 2014 , 	No chance of an agreement with the USA
The denial of normal legal processes does not automatically confer the absence of legal processes altogether . Though a normal public trial is not possible for security reasons , detainees ' rights are still respected during the internment process . Safeguards are built into the internment process so that each case can be considered fairly , with the suspect represented before a proper tribunal and given a right to appeal to a higher authority . At Guantanamo Bay , President G. W. Bush introduced military tribunals made up of five U.S. armed force officers and presided over by qualified military judges to handle the legal ambiguities of suspects held in the facility . The accused still have the presumption of innocence and proof of guilt has to be beyond that of a reasonable doubt . If such a trial is provided -LRB- often to standards of evidence and procedure higher than in normal courts in many countries around the world -RRB- and a sentence properly passed , then this is not internment as it has been practised in the past . 1 . 2 . 	Tribunals are adequate replacements that maintain respect for detainees ' rights .
Governments must have powers to protect their citizens against threats to the life of the nation . This is not merely to directly protect citizens from political violence , but also because political violence handicaps the process of reconstruction in nation-building efforts . Everyone would recognise that rules that are applied in peacetime may not be appropriate during wartime . Captured enemy combatants , for example , should not expect to be tried individually in civilian courts ; it is essential however that they be held securely until they no longer pose a threat or an appropriate legal process can be established to assess their case . The war on terror is in this respect a war like earlier , more conventional conflicts whereby captured combatants are held until the conclusion of conflicts . No-one captured on D-Day expected to be granted a trial in a civilian court to establish their guilt . Just because our enemies do not wear uniforms or conform to a normal military structure -LRB- some indeed may even hold the citizenship of the state they are fighting against -RRB- , does not make them any less of a threat to our society . 	Governments must have powers to protect citizens from harm .
At a time when our society is under threat , it is more important to protect our intelligence sources than it is to try and punish individual terrorists . Even when strong proof exists , charging and trying terror suspects in open court would require governments to reveal their intelligence sources . This would risk the identification of their spies in foreign countries and within dangerous organisations . Not only might this lead to the murder of brave agents , it would also shut off crucial intelligence channels that could warn us of future attacks . For example , the head of police in Northern Ireland has admitted if people were not confident their identities would be protected they would not come forward . In a deal with the devil , the intelligence procured is more important and saves more lives than the violation of ones right to a fair trial . Even if special arrangements were made to present intelligence evidence in court , hostile organisations would be able to work out how much or little western intelligence services know about them , and the manner in which they operate . In these circumstances , detention without public trial is the only safe option . 	The protection of intelligence sources is more important than trying suspects .
Certain factors may increase the chance of success : for example imposing democracy on a nation with which there were once colonial relationships increases the expected lifespan of the democracy . Democratic transitions in general also tend to be more successful if economic conditions are better . Obviously we are not advocating imposing democracy on every country which does not have it , but if there are strong enough institutions and conditions , imposition can work and there have been past successes like Germany and Japan post WWII that show the worth of imposing democracy / . 	Interventions can be successful given the right conditions .
Democratic regimes are the best form of government , and it is our obligation to try and provide that to others . Democracy is the only form of government which upholds the value of political self-determination : that each individual has a right to form his/her government , and to vote out governments s/he does not like . To deny this right is to deny the inherent worth and freedom of the individual . Political autonomy also has instrumental value insofar as it allows individuals to check abusive governments which may seek to violate other human rights . Thus it is certainly not wrong -- and may even be our humanitarian obligation -- to bring democracy to those who do not have it , just as we would intervene in other situations in which serious rights were being abused . 	Because democracy is the best form of government , it is not wrong -- and indeed may even be our obligation -- to bring it to those who do not have it .
If the people within a nation want democracy , it is not wrong -- indeed it may even be morally required -- for us to assist them by imposing democracy against the will of the governing class . Often internal movements lack resources , weapons , or organization , making the fight for democracy very difficult . When individuals seek to defend their rights against an oppressive regime , other nations do them a disservice by allowing evil to win out . Thus NATO 's intervention in Libya was in support of rebels often seen as part of the ` Arab spring ' wave of democratization but the internal movement even if it had large amounts of support was being suppressed and would have been destroyed without outside intervention . 	Imposing democracy can be a way to support individuals unable to fight for democracy themselves .
Rehabilitation is the most valuable ideological justification for imprisonment , for it alone promotes the humanising belief in the notion that offenders can be saved and not simply punished . Desert -LRB- retributive -RRB- theory , on the other hand , sees punishment as an end in itself , in other words , punishment for punishments sake . This has no place in any enlightened society . An example can be taken from the aftermath of the London rioters , where 170 riot offenders under 18 are now in custody without firstly understanding the causes of the riots nor the reasons of why these people offended . The rehabilitative ideal does not ignore society and the victim . In fact it is because retribution places such great value on the prisoners rights that it tries so hard to change the offender and prevent his reoffending . By seeking to reduce reoffending and to reduce crime , it seeks constructively to promote the safety of the public , and to protect individuals from the victimisation of crime . The public agrees ; a 2008 poll of British citizens found 82 % thought rehabilitation was as important , or more important than punishment as a criterion when sentencing criminals . Such a model of punishment is therefore a more enlightened approach in a modern day criminal justice system . Our current system which focuses more on retribution does not have the possibility of seeking to prevent reoffending by curing the offender of their desire to reoffend . . 	Rehabilitation Is A Better General Justifying Aim for Punishment
Rehabilitation has another important value it recognises the reality of social inequity . To say that some offenders need help to be rehabilitated is to accept the idea that circumstances can constrain , if not compel , and lead to criminality ; it admits that we can help unfortunate persons who have been overcome by their circumstance . It rejects the idea that individuals , regardless of their position in the social order , exercise equal freedom in deciding whether to commit a crime , and should be punished equally according to their offence , irrespective of their social backgrounds . Prisons are little more than schools of crime if there are n't any rehabilitation programs . Prisons isolate offenders from their families and friends so that when they are released their social networks tend to be made up largely of those whom they met in prison . As well as sharing ideas , prisoners may validate each others criminal activity . Employers are less willing to employ those who have been to prison . Such circumstances may reduce the options available to past offenders and make future criminal behaviour more likely . Rehabilitation becomes more difficult . In addition , rates of self-harm and abuse are alarmingly high within both mens and womens prisons . In 2006 alone , there were 11,503 attempts by women to self-harm in British prisons . This suggests that imprisoning offenders unnecessarily is harmful both for the offenders themselves and for society as a whole . . 	Rehabilitation Has Greater Regard For the Offender
Governments and leaders who are considering attacks on their own people , or who are wavering in their commitment to defend them from harm , will be aware that ignoring their own obligations could bring swift action from the international community . Only once their ability to hide behind claims to absolute sovereignty has been removed will human rights have to be taken seriously by dictators and extremist regimes . Thus by adopting a strong UN position on the Responsibility to Protect , we can hope to make states take their own responsibilities more seriously and make the need for any actual intervention rare . For example , Omar Al-Bashir of the Sudan has committed horrible atrocities against his own people . He is complicit in committing genocide against Darfur populations , yet remains in power . There is a warrant for his arrest from the International Criminal Court , but they have little ability to act upon their threats . A strong commitment to the responsibility to protect would ensure leaders like Bashir think twice before permitting such atrocities to take place , through fear for their own grip on power . 	A strong United Nations commitment to the Right to Protect will create an effective deterrent to future atrocities .
It is immoral to let people die when something can be done about it . It inherently values the lives of victims of genocide and civil war less than other lives . The world and the United Nations have for too long stood by and watched atrocities unfold . Cambodia , Bosnia , Rwanda and Darfur are all horrible examples where genocide and other appalling violations of human rights were inflicted upon civilian populations while the UN failed to act . Clearly in all the past cases where action might have saved lives and delivered hundreds of thousands of people from evil , no action was taken by the Security Council . Therefore those who argue that future challenges should be considered purely on a case-by-case basis must accept that this is likely to mean yet more refusals to act decisively and so more needless suffering . We must place an obligation to act on the Security Council so that they are predisposed to respond seriously and swiftly in future . If there is a known atrocity going on in the international community , the Security Council should no longer be allowed to ignore it based on their individual ties . For example China could not defend the Sudan even though they have close financial ties when intervention for human rights abuses is the norm . The world responded to the holocaust saying never again , yet similar ethnic cleansing has happened over and over again , and in defense of human rights the UN needs to adopt a no tolerance policy . Countries who are not prepared for this obligation should step down from the Security Council . 	It is better to save lives than stand idly by .
Citizens should be protected by individual governments , however if governments are either partaking in or failing to prevent genocide and mass atrocities , then another global actor needs to take action . The United Nations should take on this responsibility to protect people when their governments are unable or unwilling to do so , in order to prevent mass killings , genocide and other atrocities . If we believe human rights have any meaning at all , then they must be universal and therefore our obligation to protect citizens from such horrors must apply regardless of state boundaries . Moving from a situation where the UN placed the rights of states above those of their people , to one where individual rights are given the greater priority is surely morally essential . 	The United Nations has a responsibility to prevent genocide and mass atrocities .
We can no longer argue that sovereignty must be considered absolute . Sovereignty was created as the means by which states justified the control of their territory to prevent foreign aggression . Since the creation of the United Nations , sovereignty is no longer as necessary to protect states , as most wars are not about territorial acquisition . Now it is primarily a barrier to the international community intervening when the state is abusing its own population . A better principle is if governments today are unable or unwilling to perform the duty to protect their people from harm -LRB- including state-imposed harm -RRB- , then their claims to sovereignty lose their moral force and intervention becomes justified . For example , Qaddafi of Libya was likening his citizens to cockroaches and rats , threatening to kill them house-by-house whilst speaking of his intent to indiscriminately attack the population of Benghazi . As such , there was significant concern that violence would have devastating impacts on Libyan civilians . The United Nations , in response , authorized NATO action . Through unleashing state military assets to attack his own population , Qaddafi made it clear that he was not a fit leader . The United Nations , as the representative of the international community , has the responsibility to protect those whose leaders have let them down . 	Countries and governments have an obligation to protect human rights and defend their citizens from harm
The Church has adapted over the centuries on a number of social and natural issues as it seeks to re-interpret and re-explain Gods message of love in the terms of modern society . For example Churches have adapted to the problems that science has thrown up , even the Catholic church , often the slowest to embrace change did eventually agree with Galileo over the earth going round the sun . The acceptance of homosexuality and admission of gay priests is a necessary next step for the Church today . There will be others in the future . 	The Church has adapted before , it can adapt now
Sexuality is an indivisible part of personhood ; people need to be able to express their sexuality openly in order to fully actualise themselves . It is wrong therefore to use sexuality as an individual metric by which they are eligible to become priests or not they should be taken on the whole of their personhood . 	Sexuality is an intrinsic part of personality
Priests have a responsibility to represent the members of their congregations . A large number of Christians are gay , and they can receive better spiritual direction from gay ministers than from heterosexuals who do not understand their lifestyles or relationships as well . 	Priests have to represent their congregations
Homosexual behaviour occurs naturally both in humans and in the animal world , it has been observed in over 1500 animal species of all different types from mammals to crabs to worms . It must be a misunderstanding of Gods plan to say that homosexuality is unnatural it forms a part of the world that He has created and therefore must form part of His plan . The substance of what the Bible says about sexuality is that what matters is having a stable and loving relationship , not who that relationship is with . 	Homosexuality exists in nature and is therefore part of Gods plan
Medical ethics say that a doctor has a responsibility to keep the patient alive to administer treatment . In the UK Diana Pretty was denied the right to die by the House of Lords even though she consistently requested it . The Israeli Courts ordered the force - feeding of political hunger strikers arguing that in a conflict between life and dignity , life wins . India prosecuted a physician who allowed a hunger striker to die . The medical profession take their responsibility for life very seriously on a global level . 	In the first instance , doctors should always act to keep a patient alive
Anorectic patients are typically treated under mental health legislation -LRB- e.g . the UK 1983 Act -RRB- . They do not make a free choice because they are not rationally able to weigh up decisions and consequences , they feel fat when they obviously are not and are irrational as they are willing to starve themselves to the point of death when suicide is not their intent . The patient is not capable of forming unimpaired and rational judgements concerning the consequences -LRB- British Medical Association 1992 -RRB- . There have been court cases that have confirmed that force feeding should be allowed when a patient is considered mentally ill . For example the case of vs. in 1994 it was judged , that B -LRB- a borderline personality disorder patient , which involves suffering from an irresistible desire to inflict-self-harm -RRB- can be force fed , even though she did not give consent to the treatment . The court explained that because she was not aware of the seriousness of her condition and she had found it difficult to break out of the cycle of self-punishment , she was deemed unfit to make decisions about her nutrition . 	Anorectic patients are not able to make the decision for themselves .
A healthier body weight is necessary to be able to treat the patients psychological problems . Studies in Minnesota show that when normal volunteers were starved , they began to development anorectic patterns . They over-estimated the sizes of their own faces by approximately 50 % . This shows the impact of starvation on the brain . 	Force feeding can help psychologically .
Life is more important than dignity , many medical treatments are unpleasant or painful but they are necessary to preserve life . Without force feeding the anorectic patient will often die . In Australia about 80 per cent of all anorexic children required hospital admission -LRB- from 101 cases -RRB- , and of those , 50 per cent required tube feeding as a life-saving measure to manage starvation . When a patient requires emergency treatment doctors should do what is necessary to save the patients life . Psychological problems can only be treated if the person is alive . Treatment for the psychological problem should be considered to go hand in hand with saving the patients life as in the B vs. Croydon Health Authority where force feeding was ruled to be complemented the use of other methods to treat her psychiatric problems . 	Life is more important than dignity
It is important for the EU to have a defence policy independent of NATO . With its origins in the Cold War , and its preponderance of American influence , NATO carries a great deal of historical and geopolitical baggage . This means that NATO can not easily intervene in Eastern Europe without incurring the displeasure of Russia . This was best proven during the 2008 conflict between Russia and Georgia , when Georgias impending accession to NATO was seen as part of the incentive for Russian support to the break-away regions in Georgia . The European Defence Force will allow the EU to deal with crises in Eastern and Central Europe more effectively , as they will not have to tiptoe around Russia as much . Parsons , R. -LRB- 8 August , 2008 -RRB- . . Accessed September 7 , 2011 from : 	The EU needs a dedicated defence force
Constant political instability and war in and near the Middle East call for a united single force charged with the defence of EU countries lying close to the volatile areas . . Turkey is a prime candidate for EU membership , and with its location on the border of both Syria and Iraq , will require support if its refugee problem is to remain manageable . The revolutions in Northern Africa also call for a stabilising force in the region , particularly in Italy where a refugee crisis has coincided with the attempts of anti-Gaddafi Libyans to flee the country . If the EU is to take its growing role upon the world stage seriously , it needs a dedicated defence force to make an impact in the region . Day , M. -LRB- 14 May , 2011 -RRB- . Accessed September 7 , 2011 from : 	Regional instability in certain areas of continental europe necessitates the creation of an EU defence force
The European Union has significant integration and convergence of the political and economic spheres . Integration of defence policy and the establishment of a European Defence Force should be the logical next step . The African Union took this step and has achieved success in combat missions defending the Union . The UN Refugee Agency -LRB- 31 January , 2008 -RRB- . Accessed September 7 , 2011 from : 	A single army would enhance the political integration of EU members states
NATO has been crucial to maintaining the balance of power during the cold war . Although there have been some arguments amongst its member states , NATO has shown us that a standing multinational defence force is possible and more importantly works well overall . The recent NATO deployment in Libya is an example of its regional influence and military flexibility . Considering many members of NATO are also members of the EU , the proposed European Defence Force could follow its example and complement it . BBC News -LRB- 26 August , 2011 -RRB- . Accessed September 7 , 2011 from : 	NATO has established a precedent for multilateral military action
With the growing industrial and economic maturity of the European Union and its members , it is now financially feasible for the EU to have its own standing defence force . The proposed EDF would also create a great many jobs as European defence contractors could be recruited into supplying equipment and weaponry . Amadeo , K. . . Accessed September 7 , 2011 from About : 	The economic strength of the EU enables the creation of a strong military
It is true that animals and human beings are different . It is also true that men are different from women and children from adults . Equality does not require beings to be identical . It is true that whilst many people argue women should have the right to abortion , no one argues the same for men because men are unable to have an abortion . It is similarly true that whilst most people believe all human beings have a right to vote , no one argues that animals deserve a right to vote even those who support animal rights . Equality does not mean that beings all deserve the exact same treatment . It means rather that we consider equally the equal interests of animals and humans . If we deem amount A to be the maximum amount of suffering a person be allowed to endure , then that should apply equally to an animal , though humans and animals may suffer different amounts under different circumstances . The principle of equality advocates equal consideration , so it still allows for different treatment and different rights . Equality is a prescriptive rather than a descriptive concept . Whats important is that beings should ONLY be treated differently where there is a morally relevant difference between them . For example , we can justifiably deny dogs the right to vote because there is a relevant difference in intelligence between dogs and humans . However , there is no justification for battery-farming chickens who have a capacity to suffer . There is evidence that they experience fear , pain and discomfort . Although chickens may be less intelligent and unable to speak , these differences are not morally relevant to whether or not they should be placed in these conditions . We ought to consider animals equally to the way we consider humans . If we were to do so we would give animals rights . We ought therefore to give animals rights . 	Animals are equal to human beings .
We have already noted that beings do not need to be similar in order to be equally morally considerable . Assuming but not conceding that this is false , we will prove that animals are in fact incredibly similar to human beings , so much so that we should grant them rights . First of all , animals have an equal capacity to experience pain . While we are unable to know exactly what other humans or animals are experiencing , we can make inference from what we observe . According to Peter Singer : Nearly all the signs that lead us to infer pain in other humans can be seen in other species ... The behavioural signs include writhing , facial contortions , moaning , yelping or other forms of calling , attempts to avoid the source of pain , appearance of fear at the prospect of its repetition , and so on . In addition we know that animals have nervous systems very like ours , which respond physiologically as ours do when the animal is in a circumstance in which we would feel painan initial rise of blood pressure , dilated pupils , perspiration , an increased pulse rate , and , if the stimulus continues , a fall in blood pressure . Although human beings have a more developed cerebral cortex than other animals , this part of the brain is concerned with thinking functions rather than basic impulses , emotions , and feelings . These impulses , emotions , and feelings are located in the diencephalon , which is well developed in many other species of animals , especially mammals and birds . Animals therefore have the capacity for physical and emotional suffering , and so should be granted rights . Singer , Peter . `` All Animals are Equal . '' Ethics for Everyday . -LRB- Benatar , D Ed . -RRB- McGraw Hill : New York . 	Even if it matters whether or not humans and animals are similar , humans and animals are in fact similar enough that both should be granted rights .
Sentience is the property of being conscious . Sentience brings with it the ability to experience . There is a massive difference in the way that we treat sentient and non-sentient beings instinctively . We see nothing wrong with forming relationships with ones pets but we tend to deem people with emotional relationships to objects mentally ill . Here we are talking about something more than sentimentality but rather the kind of relationship in which one is concerned with the other partys emotional wellbeing . We even feel concerned about the wellbeing of sentient beings which whom we do not have a personal connection . For example we may feel upset when we see a dog run over on the road . This would be a very difficult reaction to how we might feel if we see an object crushed by a car . We feel moral outrage at the clubbing of seals . The instinctive way which we differentiate between these two categories relates to the type of value they have . Whilst objects have value because of how they affect us - e.g . they are useful or remind us of a good time or person we believe that animals have intrinsic value . This means that a sentient being must never be treated as a means rather than an end in and of itself . Animals are sentient . Therefore , animals must not be treated as a means to an end but as intrinsically valuable . 	Animals are intrinsically worthy of rights because they are sentient
Babies and individuals with learning disabilities may lack intelligence , a sense of justice and the ability to conceive of their future . We ensure that babies and the learning disabled are protected by rights and therefore these factors can not be criteria by which to exclude a being from the rights system . Therefore , even if animals are not as advanced as human beings they should be protected by rights . An inability to know what 's going on might make being experimented on etc even more frightening and damaging for an animal that it may be for a human being . 	Even if we did think that animals were less intelligent than humans beings they should be protected by rights
The estate tax is a progressive tax that promotes economic equality by taxing the rich more than the poor . It acknowledges that luck , circumstance , and family contribute to wealth along with hard work , creativity , and sacrifice . Only about 2 % of Americans , the very wealthiest , actually pay estate taxes because there is a high initial exemption level -LRB- rising to $ 3.5 million in 2009 -RRB- below which nothing is paid . This means that even the very rich pay only a small percentage of the value of their entire estate - if you died in 2009 leaving an estate worth $ 5 million , only the $ 1.5 million above the threshold would actually pay any estate tax . Furthermore , the need to reduce economic inequality has never been greater ; in the United States the gap between the earnings of the top fifth and the bottom fifth has jumped 50 % since 1980 . Therefore , the estate tax is vital in preventing the emergence of a ` hereditary upper class ' that would institutionalise wealth and prevent its dispersal to those who work the hardest and deserve the greatest reward . 	The Estate Tax encourages economic equality
The estate tax prevents the concentration of wealth in the hands of a few , avoiding a plutocracy -LRB- government by a wealthy ruling class -RRB- . It allows the pursuit of the American dream by limiting the power of `` old money . '' Repealing the estate tax would also widen the gap between the poor and the wealthy , and could fuel the kind of class envy that would really threaten the property-owning American capitalism that so favours the wealthy . In any case , do we really want to create a class of idle rich who have done nothing themselves to create wealth , but merely inherited it ? Would it even be good for the inheritors if this happened ? Much better for the government to use some of these windfalls to help give every American child a decent chance in life , for example through better funding for education , health , etc . . The estate tax prevents the concentration of wealth in the hands of a few , avoiding a plutocracy -LRB- government by a wealthy ruling class -RRB- . It allows the pursuit of the American dream by limiting the power of `` old money . '' Repealing the estate tax would also widen the gap between the poor and the wealthy , and could fuel the kind of class envy that would really threaten the property-owning American capitalism that so favours the wealthy . In any case , do we really want to create a class of idle rich who have done nothing themselves to create wealth , but merely inherited it ? Would it even be good for the inheritors if this happened ? Much better for the government to use some of these windfalls to help give every American child a decent chance in life , for example through better funding for education , health , etc . . 	The Estate Tax prevents the concentration of wealth in a few
Although historically developed to finance wars , the estate tax is an important continuing source of revenue for the U.S. budget . If its repeal was made permanent from 2010 , then more than $ 1 trillion would be lost to the federal government over ten years . And remember that when the 2001 Act for reducing and eventually repealing the estate tax was passed , the US federal budget was in surplus and government spending was under control . Since then a range of Republican tax cuts and spendthrift expenditure have sent the budget into heavy deficit , while the ongoing costs of wars in Iraq and Afghanistan continue to be heavy . Given that the aging of the baby boomer generation poses huge costs for the USA in terms of health care , social security benefits , and a worsening dependency ratio , abolishing the estate tax is a luxury America can not afford . Moreover , as Theodore Roosevelt pointed out in 1906 , ` the man of great wealth owes a particular obligation to the state because he derives special advantages from the mere existence of government ' 	The Estate Tax is an important source of revenue for governments
The estate tax creates an incentive to leave money to charitable causes , as any sum left to a charity is exempt from the tax calculations . This allows rich individuals to exercise choices as to where their fortune goes after their death , rather than leaving it to the federal government to decide , but the whole of society still benefits . In this way the estate tax underpins the whole tradition of American philanthropy which does so much to enrich social , educational , cultural and environmental areas of national life . A study on the effect of the estate tax on charitable giving found that ` estate tax repeal would have significant deleterious effects on charitable bequests and giving during life ' . In 2001 , 301 decedents with gross estates in excess of $ 20 million gave $ 6.8 million to charity , accounting for 42 % of all charitable bequests . 	The Estate Tax creates incentives to leave money to charity
Money is actually a very effective way of gauging the success of the ideas presented to the electorate , it shows the best political ideas and personalities in the through the market . It is often argued that politicians who spend a lot of money win elections . However , when this hypothesis was scientifically tested , it turned out that in fact successful and popular candidates merely attracted more money , the same way they attract more volunteers , more endorsers , and more votes . Therefore , money , like an endorsement , is just a demonstrative way of throwing ones weight behind a candidate one agrees with . Viewed in this context , money is not some sinister device for unpopular ideas to rise to the top against the will of the majority , but , like an endorsement , a form of speech supporting those ideas which are already popular enough to attract it . Steven D. Levitt Using Repeat Challengers to Estimate the effect of Campaign Spending on Election Outcomes to the U.S. House . The Journal of Political Economy , Volume 102 , Issue 4 , August 1994 , pp . 777-798 . 	Money as a metric of support for political ideas .
In Buckley , the Justices declared : virtually every means of communicating ideas in today 's mass society requires the expenditure of money . The distribution of the humblest handbill or leaflet entails printing , paper , and circulation costs . Speeches and rallies generally necessitate hiring a hall and publicizing the event . The electorate 's increasing dependence on television , radio , and other mass media for news and information has made these expensive modes of communication indispensable instruments of effective political speech . In the 2008 election , presidential candidates spent 1.7 billion dollars on their campaigns . This helps to show that nowadays , the effective communication of political ideas can not be achieved without the expenditure of money . Therefore , one can not protect political speech and at the same time place restrictions on the main resource which makes it possible , there is little point in freedom to elucidate ideas without the ability to spread those ideas . Spending money has become an inextricable component of political communication . U.S. Supreme Court BUCKLEY v. VALEO , 424 U.S. 1 -LRB- 1976 -RRB- . Jonathan D. Saland , Spending Dobuled as Obama Led First Billion Dollar Race in 2008 , Bloomberg 2008 . 	Money is intrinsic to political speech .
In 2009 President Obama stated I believe that on the fundamental issues that will shape this century , Americans and Russians share common interests that form a basis for cooperation . This makes the real question how to cooperate rather that whether there should be cooperation . Military transparency , particularly on nuclear weapons is necessary . Russia and the United States matter to one another , and how well or how poorly we manage our interactions matters to the rest of the world . The two of us control more than 90 % of the worlds nuclear weapons , and our leadership can do more than anyone elses to help secure nuclear material globally and prevent the spread of nuclear weapons . This continued cooperation on nuclear issues in particular has been demonstrated with the signing of the New START treaty on 8 April 2010 . There are many other areas where cooperation between the America and Russia is vital as well . As is demonstrated by the geopolitical situation Russia sits astride Europe , Asia and the broader Middle East three regions whose future will shape American interests for many years to come . And in an era in which common challenges so cooperation is necessary for the United States , but also for Russia as it would not want the US acting without its cooperation . According to Undersecretary of State Burns there are also many issues non-proliferation , climate change , energy security , the struggle against terrorism , and many more demand common action more than at any other period in human history , the United States and Russia have a lot more to gain by working together than by working apart . 	Russian and the US have many areas where they can cooperate .
September 11th brought a change in how the United States dealt with the autocratic rulers of Central Asia , bringing policy more into line with Moscows interests . The US changed from promoting democracy in the region to trying to keep the region stable by supporting the incumbent regimes . For example Uzbekistan was given US political , military and economic support despite human rights violations . There were also secondary US interests that were not related to terrorism such as attempting to limit the production of drugs and the corruption this causes . President Putin recognised that Terrorism and drugs are absolutely kindred phenomena . With Russias immense drug problems We have a conspicuous growth of the share of highly concentrated drugs , and in the first place Afghan heroin The promotion of peace and stability to Afghanistan and the promised aid to rebuild Afghanistan and the region economically , were also recognised by George Bush as US interests in the region . There has therefore in the aftermath of 9/11 been a dovetailing of interests in central Asia and in particular Afghanistan and on the war on drugs . 	Desire to stabilize Central Asia
In some cases , terrorism can result in the acknowledgement of certain groups . Therefore , terrorism is justified by its success in achieving results when peaceful means have failed . In many countries terrorists have succeeded in bringing governments to negotiate with them and make concessions to them . Where governments have not been willing to concede to rational argument and peaceful protest , terrorism can compel recognition of a cause . Nelson Mandela moved from terrorist to President . In many other countries we see this trend too in Israel , Northern Ireland , in Sri Lanka , and in the Oslo peace process that led to the creation of the Palestinian Authority . 	Terrorism can lead to discussion
A more obvious problem with the limited coverage of womens sport is the distinct lack of sports role models available as sources of inspiration for girls . Having sports role models is crucial for children to attain the desire and motivation to partake in sport . Boys often want to be like Lionel Messi in football , or Lebron James in basketball . Boys can access such figureheads because they are world famous . Their sporting achievements and prowess are glorified in all forms of media and people can very easily watch them play their sport live on TV . The same does not exist for girls because female athletes receive nowhere near as much media attention as their male counterparts . Girls often cant even name any female sports stars so lack role models in sport . -LSB- 1 -RSB- Although it is true that children can have role models of either sex , the divide in the sports world between mens and womens sports means girls can not aspire to compete alongside the likes of Usain Bolt or Michael Phelps . The successes of British female athletes like Rebecca Adlington , Jessica Ennis and Victoria Pendleton , or the young Katie Ledecky from the USA in the recent Olympics have captured the hearts and imagination of a huge number of young girls across the UK and already , as local sports centres and athletics clubs have seen participation amongst girls soar during and after the London Olympics . This is no coincidence it is because of the media attention and glorification female athletes receive . The Olympic Games are an example of what equal media coverage of mens and womens sport can achieve , The equal coverage of Grand Slam tennis and the subsequent glorification of the likes of Maria Sharapova and Serena Williams is another example . We must take action to provide the same sort of role models across all sporting events . -LSB- 1 -RSB- 	Increased media coverage creates more role models for young girls to engage in sport .
Increased media coverage will lead to more money going into womens sport . This will happen for several reasons . Increased Government funding is desirable because it leads to better facilities and coaching , increased public awareness , increased participation and , ultimately , in improved results on the sporting field -LRB- as was seen in both Beijing and London for team GB -RRB- . -LSB- 1 -RSB- -LSB- 2 -RSB- 	Increased media coverage will lead to increased funding towards womens sport
The male world-view which dominates sports media and conveys to the public that womens sport are inferior to mens reinforce traditional gender stereotypes and deter young girls from becoming active in sport . Gender perceptions have obviously come a long way in the last 100 years , but the media classification of womens sport as inferior to mens is severely slowing this progress in the field of sport . Humans are social beings with esteem needs , and as social beings we like to be viewed in a positive light by our peers . This is best achieved on a general level by conforming to social expectations and norm . This also applies for societal conceptions of gender . The fact that the media deems womens sport to be of lesser importance which -LRB- as we have seen -RRB- conveys to the public this message , reinforces the notion that sport is not a worthwhile activity for women and girls . Instead , it is an activity more appropriate for men and boys . This kind of discourse has the effect of moulding gender identities both in terms of how men perceive women and how women perceive themselves . In this way , the lack of media coverage of womens sport fuels a self-affirming perception of gender which effectively denies many young girls a realistic choice of becoming engaged in sport as perceptions affect confidence in ones ability ; as a result of this gender bias boys as young as six rate themselves as being much more competent in sports than girls do . -LSB- 1 -RSB- By forcing the media to provide equal coverage of both mens and womens sport , we take an effective step in breaking these societal discourses and transforming gender perceptions . This is because increased coverage will make sport seem like a worthwhile activity for girls and women . As more women take part in sport , this has a further cyclical effect of re-affirming gender conceptions around sport which , in turn , induces further women to become engaged in sport . This is a desirable outcome from the governments perspective because sport has a positive impact on the health of those who are physically active . Those who are physically active are not only less likely to suffer from things like Coronary Heart Disease and cancer , but they have also been shown to lead more psychologically happy lives due to the endorphins released while exercising , and the joy of feeling physically fit . -LSB- 1 -RSB- 	Increased media coverage changes public perceptions towards gender roles and womens sport .
Sport is dominated by a male-orientated world view . This is the case in two respects : This male dominated world-view is unfair on female athletes . Sport is supposed to be a celebration of the human mind and body , and it is right that athletes that push themselves to the brink in search for glory receive due praise . The hugely skewed coverage of sport against womens sports caused by the male world-view in the media is hugely unfair on female athletes , as they do not get the deserved recognition their male counterparts receive . -LSB- 1 -RSB- -LSB- 2 -RSB- -LSB- 3 -RSB- 	The sports world is unfairly dominated by a male-orientated world-view .
Lives are already being lost to climate change ; a report by Climate Vulnerability Monitor estimates that already almost 5million are lost per year to climate change , even without the distorting numbers from pollution there are 400,000 deaths per year . While attributing individual events to climate change is difficult research by climate scientists suggests that the lack long rains in Somalia in early 2011 is between 24 and 99 % the result of greenhouse gasses . This famine has killed between 50 and 100 thousand people . With lives being lost the urgency of funding adaptation to reduce these loses is clear . Climate Vulnerability Monitor , A Guide to the cold calculus of a hot planet , , September 2012 , , p. 17 Straziuso , Jason , Global warming may have fueled Somali drought , Phys.org , 15 May 2013 , 	Climate change is already costing lives
The IPCC says that it is extremely likely that human activities are the cause of the temperature rise . This means the biggest historical emitters have a responsibility to pay for the consequences . From 1900 to 2004 the United States produced 314,772 million metric tonnes of CO2 compared to Chinas 89,243 million metric tonnes and while India now produces more CO2 Germany over the same period emitted three times as much . History matters as much of the CO2 remains in the atmosphere for decades or hundreds of years . It is the responsibility of those who caused the problem to protect innocents from the fallout of their actions . Harvey , Fiona , IPCC climate report : human impact is ` unequivocal ' , , 27 September 2013 , Vaughn , Adam , A history of CO2 emissions , , 2 September 2009 , 	The developed world has the responsibility to help others
Many of the areas of adaptation are areas where the west has the relevant expertise ; seasonal forecasting , adjusting farming perhaps by engineering hardier plants , weather insurance etc . . Africa does not have experience or experts in many of the relevant areas , for example Africa lags behind in bioscience , so it makes sense for the west to provide these experts . And while they do so the west might as well also pay the cost of these expertise and also provide the necessary skills education and training to overcome these problems . Wafula , Kevin , Africa still lags behind on bioscience capacities , says Scientist , , 2011 , 	The developed world has the necessary skills
A report by the United Nations Environmental Project estimates that adaptation costs to Africa per year could already be $ 15billion , reach $ 50billion by 2050 and anything up to $ 350billion by 2070 . Funding for adaptation to Africa in 2011 was only $ 454milliion . This is not a gap that Africa can make up itself ; in 2010 all spending on education was less than $ 50billion . Africa cant afford to adapt itself while responding to an expanding population as well as its existing problems of poverty and disease . It is clear that developed countries that do have the resources have to step it and take responsibility . Schaeffer , Michiel et al . , Summary , , United Nations Environmental Project , 2013 , p.xi Public spending on education ; total -LRB- % of GDP -RRB- in sub saharan Africa , , , Gross domestic product 2010 , , 	Africa does not have the resources to protect itself from climate change
The IPCC starts its chapter on Africa Africa is one of the most vulnerable continents to climate change and climate variability . It is also the poorest continent in the world so least able to cope . In the GAIN index by the Global Adaptation Institute which measures vulnerability and readiness for climate change eight of the bottom ten are African states . The changes to Africa could be dramatic ; 40 % of wildlife habitats could disappear , crop yields fall by 5 % despite already being the lowest in the world and 70 million are at risk of flooding as sea levels rise . If anywhere needs help from developed countries in adaptation it is Africa . Boko , Michel , et al . , Africa , Climate Change 2007 : Impacts , Adaptation and Vulnerability . Contribution of Working Group II to the Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change , , 2007 , , p. 435 Gain Index , 2011 , Bloomfield , Steve , Africa will be worst hit by climate change , , 6 November 2006 , 	Africa will be among the hardest hit
In a much more practical sense historical data may well breach national security . They may well be instances , such as in the case given in the introduction , where governments may even be unaware that there were issues of national security involved until they are brought to light . Data that was not significant fifty years ago may become of great significance later on . To take a simple , hypothetical example . Laws relating to the ownership of the sea are relatively obscure and often based on ancient negotiations or treaties that are mostly about something else . They frequently involve custom and precedent and , for the most part , nobody really makes a fuss about the exact details . Until , of course , someone finds an oil field underneath that stretch of ocean or the fish supplies of a neighboring area become depleted . At his point , the exact details of those negotiations and treaties become a source of great interest . Thus for example documents relating the Senkaku/Daioyu islets may have been uncontentious and irrelevant in the 1950 may now be of vital importance in an international dispute between China and Japan over the islands . In a scenario such as this , there may well be vital national issues that were not predicted at the time of the negotiation or ratification of a treaty . Disputes of this nature justifying industrial scale claims to mineral and fishing rights on the basis of historical claims are likely to boom over the next few years in relation to the poles as the icecaps recede . There are islands around the world under disputed ownership for this reason . -LRB- China/Japan -RRB- and -LRB- Japan/Korea -RRB- are two obvious examples . 	Predicting and protecting the future nation
Cell phones in cars , unlike a variety of other distractions , can be regulated easily . They are an object which can easily be identified , and with phone bills it is possible to find out if a person is lying when they are caught for using cell phones in cars . As such the fact that other distractions exist , even if they are as harmful as cellphones , is no reason to not to ban their use . Further , other sources of potential distraction , such as passengers or car radios , may provide a net gain in utility to road users and other stakeholders in mass transit systems . Being able to carry multiple people in cars for example helps society through a reduction in carbon emissions as well as simply through a reduction in traffic . To take this argument further , there are many people who can not drive but require use of cars . For example , children might require their parents to drive them to school . Car radios are somewhat more controversial and principally if they prove to be as bad a distraction as a mobile phone then proposition would have no problem with banning them . However , things such as news and traffic updates are probably more useful to a driver than the use of mobile phones . Whilst they may be distracting , given the huge benefit they cause for society it is legitimate for them to be allowed . Even if the benefit that they confer is the same as that of phones however , it is legitimate within our mechanism that we would ban them as well if required . Editorial : Cellphone ban long overdue . 	Cell Phones are worse than other distractions
In the past the economy has not had to deal with mobile phones in cars and has been fine without their use in cars . There is no great loss in liberty or freedom when you are unable to make a mobile phone call . In fact , if you do have a pressing need to make a call , all you need do is pull over and park the vehicle , which is often not a great problem . Further , people adjust and will adjust to the inability to use phones in cars . When the restriction was implemented in California , people were simply able to give up their phones because it emerged that they were not truly necessary . Editorial : Cell phone law worth pain . 	Cell Phone Use is not necessary in vehicles .
Cell phone use within cars is consistently linked with an increased chance of an accident . This is because if a driver only has a single hand on the wheel he lacks the ability to control the car properly . Further , with both hands free and normal sets , the driver has their hearing incredibly impaired by the phone call , reducing their ability to react to certain hazards . Dialling the phone itself results in an even worse outcome as it takes the concentration of the driver away more , by forcing them to look at the phone instead of the road . Estimates indicate that such phone use has led to the death of 2,600 drivers annually in the U.S. Further , having a cell phone in the car and fumbling for it when it rings often causes accidents due to the distraction that it presents , firstly psychologically because of the noise going off , secondly due to the fact that both hands again would not be on the steering wheel to control the car . Editorial : Cellphone ban long overdue . 	Cell Phones Are a Public Health Hazard
The United Nations , as the institution that formed and maintains the Geneva Conventions and other restrictions on warfare , is able to use its structures to punish states that do not adhere to its protocols . The International Criminal Court , established by the Rome Statute of 1998 , is able to prosecute those specific persons who are charged with war crimes . Such defendants , if convicted , can be ordered to pay the victims . Furthermore , the International Court of Justice is able to bring cases against specific states that are clearly identified as having broken the protocols of war . As such , the United Nations is both legally and institutionally capable of ensuring that the dictates of the Geneva Conventions are upheld , specifically the right of a combatant captured in a conflict zone to be granted prisoner of war status . While this would provide a degree of protection for captured terrorists , it also means that terrorist organizations are subject to standards of conduct in war . Making them subject to the Geneva Conventions would uphold an incentive of restraint which might sometimes influence their conduct . 	The United Nations can punish those states who refuse to subject its prisoners of war to the Geneva Conventions
Even if we think the terrorist cause is illegitimate we have a moral duty to respect a basic level of humanity . There are certain acts , such as torture , to which no individual should be subjected , regardless of their own behaviour . The Geneva Convention is about universal respect for human dignity -LRB- International Committee of the Red Cross , 1949 -RRB- , not merely for those who show it in return . Civilised nations can and should be expected to act in a humane manner , regardless of the barbarity of their adversaries . Only by acting in such a manner can states prove the superiority of their own humanity . 	The moral duty to respect a basic level of humanity , which the Geneva Convention embodies , must be retained
Poor treatment affirms terrorist ideology : regardless of what is morally right , it would be beneficial to treat terrorists in the ways prescribed by the Convention . Terrorist ideology is often predicated on the behaviour of those countries against which it is targeted . Treating captured terrorists or terror suspects in a way that ignores their human dignity only reinforces negative perceptions of the West and encourages the radicalization of the youth -LRB- McCarthy , 2007 -RRB- . In addition , such behaviour can be used to justify terrorist actions to less radicalised members of certain communities . 	Poor treatment of terrorists affirms terrorist ideology and provides a recruitment tool , therefore the Geneva Conventions must be applied to prevent this .
Harsh interrogation of captives has not been shown to be effective -LRB- White , 2007 -RRB- . Those who are prepared to die to advance their cause are unlikely to yield information , no matter how much they are threatened or tortured . Where captives do provide information , they often state simply what they think that the interrogators want to hear , rather than anything that is true -LRB- Mazzetti , 2007 -RRB- . In addition , given the cellular nature of many terrorist organisations , those captured often have very little useful information to begin with . Even if they have been involved in a plot , they may only have information about a very small part of that plot . Furthermore , winning the trust of prisoners can lead to more effective information than the use of torture . 	Harsh interrogation is not necessarily an effective tool for extracting valuable information .
Terrorists are engaged in a war like any other : they unite as a political actor to undertake military action in favour of a specific cause . The fact that they do not represent one individual nation and that they are not at war with a specific list of states does not undermine this : Al Qaeda , for example , has clear goals including eliminating American influence within Muslim nations , destroying Israel and re-establishing the Caliphate -LRB- Blanchard , 2007 -RRB- . The fact that we may not view these causes as worthy or legitimate is irrelevant : we do not assess the merits or legitimacy of a conflict between states before deciding whether to apply the Geneva Convention . It should therefore apply equally to soldiers and terrorists . The Geneva Conventions were formed to ensure that future wars would not result in the barbarity and wanton violence that mired World War II ; to deny it to terrorists would risk the undermining of norms that have developed to restrain warfare . If we dont treat terrorists as prisoners of war therefore , we risk a return to the barbarity of warfare in the first half of the 20 century . 	Terrorists are engaged in war , which much remain subject to the Geneva Conventions lest it become unrestrained
The right to freedom of religious practice and association is acknowledged by most countries and is enshrined in Article 18 of UN Declaration of Human Rights . In those countries that can , on the basis of their history be deemed to be Christian nations it makes sense to recognise this fact by acknowledging Sunday , the Sabbath which was made for all mankind , as a day free for worship or leisure as the individual sees fit . Equally Article 24 of the same Declaration maintains the right to reasonable leisure time . It seems only practical for governments to recognise the confluence of these two principles by reserving the same day . 	Peoples rights to freedom of worship would be undermined if they were compelled to work on a Sunday
Unions consistently argue that vulnerable workers migrants , part-time workers , the young and other groups are simply unable to choose their leisure time at their own preference . It is unlikely that all members of a family all of whom are in such employment would be likely to have leisure time to share . It is simply a democratic principle that the right to an active family life and access to shared leisure should not be the preserve of the wealthy . This divide can only be met by enforcing a day shared by all members of society . 	Compelling employers to close for a day is the only way to ensure that marginalised groups are not forced to work a seven day week
There is extensive evidence that reserving one day for communal recreation has benefits in areas as diverse as community cohesion and the reduction of childhood obesity . The Colombian initiative , Ciclovia , which closes some streets altogether on a Sunday has demonstrated impressive results in these areas in the thirty years it has been established . An NOP consumer poll in 2005 showed that 85 % of respondents in the UK suggested that they would rather have a shared day off for community , family and recreational activities than see shopping hours extended on a Sunday . Representatives of those employed in the retail sector routinely condemn the impact that Sunday trading has on the family lives of those required to work . 	A shared day when there is no commercial activity encourages family life and recreation
The BCS system unfairly discriminates against 45 of the 120 teams that participate in college football . Given that some of these teams participate in non-BCS leagues they can perform incredibly well and still not get into the BCS . Further , the BCS system is flawed beyond this given that both Boise State and Utah were deemed unsuitable for the competition despite the fact that they went undefeated in the seasons before their rejection . The winner of the BCS is meant to be the best collegiate football team in the country . However , if undefeated teams are unable to compete it makes the system incredibly unfair , and reduces the legitimacy of the BCS title itself , undermining the value of the competition overall . Finally , as noted football analyst Michael Shull notes , due to flaws in the computer algorithms used to allocated BCS places , some teams that do well for a single season as an outlier or due to a positive change for the team do not get into the cup . This potentially means that the same teams consistently get into the cup and gain $ 17 million in revenue regardless of whether they win or lose . As such this system ensures that those who do get selected just get richer and better and thus become more likely to be picked by the computer system in the future . Shull , Michael . BCS No More : Football Needs Playoffs to eliminate the BS . 	Banning Playoffs Offer Greater Fairness
The issue with the BCS system , as mentioned above , is that teams selected by an often broken and biased BCS mechanism receive more money and exposure than more talented , harder working institutions , making them more likely to be selected by the same mechanism in the future . Standout teams that only perform that well for a season are able to get significantly more exposure under the proposition model . Due to the very high profile nature of playoff games - as well as the fact that there would simply be more playoff games with palpably fair and meritocratic outcomes later in the playoffs - more people will watch college football . Specifically , including more teams in a playoff based competition will mean that more fans get their favourites in to the playoffs and as such more people watch . Secondly , the increased number of matches means that it is more likely that fans will be able to catch another match if they can not watch one . Finally , should an upset happen , the amount of interest generated in the subsequent match is incredibly great and generates significantly more exposure for both teams participating . Sanderson , Matthew . The conservative case for college football reform . 	Playoffs Lead To More Exposure
Newspapers have no place in the modern media landscape as they are not environmentally friendly , they are a waste of paper when there are many other my efficient ways in which news can be disseminated . For example a single annual subscription to the New York Times roughly generates 520lb of waste which equates to approximately 4.25 trees being cut down per reader per year , when you take into account all the other publications that printed throughout the world this equates to a lot of wastage of increasingly scarce natural resources which could be avoided . Using digital tools to distribute news is more efficient as you only use resources when the content is actually required rather than the print media method in which the product is printed when it may not be necessarily purchased and consumed . 	Newspapers can not be environmentally sustained .
With the development of Digital Video Recorders -LRB- DVRs -RRB- and more generally the internet people have come to no longer simply consume media in a linear fashion , they take a more fragmented approach . In news consumption people no longer want to simply have one newspaper with a vast array of topics inside . They want to pick and choose which stories and columns they consume , people now prefer to pull the content they want rather than have it pushed on them . In a digital world the news consumer can become their own editor and no longer need to rely entirely on old hierarchical structures . 	People no longer consume media in a linear way , people prefer to pick and choose what news they consume
In an interconnected global world whereby technology allows us within seconds to communicate across the globe in a variety of forms the newspaper medium becomes obsolete . In the time it takes to write , edit , print and distribute a newspaper the events being covered may very well have changed , when we have the technology to overcome this problem it seems unlikely that newspapers will continue to exist because who wants to read old news ? An example of newspapers not being able to adapt to changing events can be seen with the killing of Osama Bin Laden on 2nd May 2011 , the story broke too late for the morning newspapers in the UK to be able to change their pages to include the story , it was then subsequently reported a day late on the 3rd May . 	In the internet age immediacy is everything , newspapers can often contain out of date information by the time they hit the shelves .
The United States , along with Europe , has been the key voice arguing for freedom on the internet and in particular that the internet should not be controlled nationally . Russia and China in particular have been advocating for much more control over the internet by states with Russias proposal advocating that Member States shall have equal rights to manage the Internet and Member States shall have the sovereign right to establish and implement public policy on matters of Internet governance , and to regulate the national Internet segment . Essentially every state should have the right to censor and surveil their chunk of the internet . With the United States already doing this countries that have previously been wavering may be much more inclined to support these proposals over US objections . The US would stand to lose out as it is currently the country with most control over internet governance . Russian Federation Proposals for the work of the conference , , 17 November 2012 , Dourado , Eli , So much for Americas internet freedom agenda , , 7 August 2013 , 	Undermines US position on internet freedom
Every country needs friends and historically the United States has managed to maintain a large number of close relationships with states around the world ; it has alliances with various Asian states such as South Korea and Japan , with many Middle Eastern states , and with almost the whole of Europe . The NSAs spying has damaged these relationships . French President Hollande said We can not accept this kind of behavior from partners and allies , while the president of the European Parliament , Martin Schulz complained the United States of America treats its closest partners , including Germany for example , but also the European Union as a whole like hostile powers . There have even been suggestions that this would jeopardise trade talks as warned by the Commissioner Viviane Reding that if there is any doubt that our partners are bugging the offices of European negotiators , then the future trade talks could be in difficulty . Chu , Henry , European leaders angered by U.S. spying reports , , 1 July 2013 , Hewitt , Gavin , EU anger at US spy scandal softened by trade talks , , 2 July 2013 , 	Damages diplomatic relations with allies
When a massacre is about to happen it is legal to intervene to prevent that massacre . The Responsibility to Protect which was accepted by the UN in 2005 . Resolution 60/1 at the 2005 World Summit stated , there was international responsibility to help to protect populations from genocide , war crimes , ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity . In this context , we are prepared to take collective action in a timely and decisive manner . Though this will only happen should peaceful means be inadequate and national authorities are manifestly failing to protect their populations . This is most certainly the case in Syria where the national authorities are the ones doing much of the killing . It must be proved that the Syrian regime is responsible for the attacks ; the US and UK say there is such evidence but so far the link is not crystal clear . Even the UK government accepts that there must be convincing evidence , generally accepted by the international community as a whole , of extreme humanitarian distress on a large scale , requiring immediate and urgent relief . As the doctrine states peaceful means must have been tried and in Syria after two years of conflict we can safely say a peaceful resolution is not in sight . And the use of force must be proportionate which since there is no plan for a full scale invasion in Syria it will be . United Nations General Assembly , Responsibility to protect populations from genocide , war crimes , ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity , Resolution 60/1 2005 , p. 30 Chemical weapon use by Syrian regime UK Government legal position , , 29 August 2013 , Cassese , Antonio , Ex iniuria ius oritur : Are We Moving towards International Legitimation of Forcible Humanitarian Countermeasures in the World Community ? , , Vol .10 , 1999 , 	A moral imperative to intervene
The international prohibition on the use of force has always been honoured in large part in the breach leading to the question of whether it should really be considered to be binding international law at all . Almost every major country has launched an illegal offensive action at some point ; The USA has been involved in Kosovo and Iraq , the UK and France in attacking Egypt in 1953 , China in attacking Vietnam in 1979 , and Russia -LRB- as the USSR -RRB- in attacking Afghanistan also in 1979 . In each instance of unilateral offensive action there will be justifications and a smoke screen to make the conflict appear to be legal when in fact it is not . Major powers should simply admit that they do not regard the prohibition of the use of force as binding on them . Even without admitting it because international law is based upon state behaviour the use of force is legal as Michael J Glennon suggests The consent of United Nations member states to the general prohibition against the use of force , as expressed in the Charter , has in this way been supplanted by a changed intent as expressed in deeds . Glennon , Michael J. , How War Left the Law Behind , , 21 November 2002 , 	Current International law on the use of force no longer matters
Unlike many of the other ICC defendants , Uhuru Kenyatta and William Ruto have a democratic mandate from elections that represented the will of the voters electoral mandates given to them after their indictment by the International Criminal Court . This must be respected by the ICC and the international community as a whole : even though they are suspected of crimes against humanity by a foreign court . European Union Election Observation Mission To Kenya , , 	Interferes with a democratic mandate
Kenya is at risk of terrorist attack . Al-Shabab , a group linked to Al Qaeda have launched a number of attacks against Kenya . In addition to the Westgate massacre , there have been grenade attacks on bus terminals and suicide bombings in refugee camps . Kenyas waters are also used by Somali based pirates as a ground for attacks on international shipping , including possibly targeting ships travelling towards the port of Mombasa . It is more important to the international community to have credible action taken in order to protect the Kenyan people from terrorism . This needs a strong Kenyan government which means that there can not be a change due to an international trial . Associated Press , Two grenade blasts rattle Nairobi ; 1 dead , , 25/10/2011 Ombati , Cyrus , Terror suspects die after bombs explode on them , , 	A delay is necessary for national security
Art differs from other forms of media with regard to the expression of ideas . Unlike other methods of conveying ideas , art has a visceral impact that is instant and has a lasting effect . In a discussion , for example , there are often clues that ideas that might make people feel uncomfortable are about to arise . Thus , people are in a better position to consent to the sorts of challenges controversy within a conversation may pose -LRB- similarly , we tend to look more positively on taboo subjects raised within a conversational context than we do when they are , for example , shouted about in the street -RRB- . In the case of art , particularly that which is displayed in public spaces -LRB- like squares , parks and museums -RRB- people are unable to consent in this way , but rather , may be confronted suddenly by something that they find disgusting , because it has forced them to confront something they find horrific or traumatic , in a manner which has a great impact , and that , because of the power of the visual , they find difficult to forget . 	The power of the visual
Sometimes artists go too far in a bid to get their message across . Simply grabbing the headlines with shock tactics does not constitute art of the sort that should be receiving either public support or attention . It is important to recognise that public displays and funding of art are limited commodities , so every time one piece is chosen for an exhibition , or an artist is given money , this comes at the cost of other possible pieces of art . It is surely better to support those artists who have chosen to express their ideas and messages in a way that does not rely on simple attention-grabbing horror : it is surely more artistically meritorious to create a work that conveys its message in a way that rewards close attention and careful study , with layers of meaning and technique . 	Just shock-tactics , at the cost of better art
Those who see the artwork , or hear of it , must be considered . Often , social disgust stems from the violation of those values that are most central to an individual . An individuals right not to have their most central values abused or ridiculed is surely of more importance than the desire of an artist to be entirely unrestricted in their work : the harm caused to individuals by the continuing acceptance by society , -LRB- and consequent exposure -RRB- of art they find disgusting , can be great , and the reasonable modern society recognises such harms and does not impose them unnecessarily . For example , the case of the Chapman brothers repeated use of Hitler and Nazi imagery : for the Chapmans the horror of WW2 might be distant and historical , and therefore for them the time may have come for Hitler to simply be mocked ; however , for others that horror is altogether more current . Other people may feel a greater connection , for example , because of the impact on their close family , which can not simply be ignored . In a situation like this , clearly the impact is infinitely more negative for that individual whose trauma is , in effect , being highlighted as now acceptable for comic material , than the positive gain is for the Chapmans : if restricted , they are simply caused to move on to other subjects . 	We have a duty to protect individuals from the worst reactions to art
A major problem for Tunisias tourism sector is the small profit margin . The industrys main targets are European , middle class income visitors on package holidays to sea-side resorts . This has resulted in a low per-capita spending rate as food , drink and travel are all usually included in sea-side holiday resorts . Average per-capita spending for tourists in Tunisia amounted to around $ 385 in 2012 which is low when compared to Egypts $ 890 and Greeces $ 1000 . This reliance on a low-profit niche in the tourism industry is a systematic flaw which will not provide the economic growth which the country needs . 1 -RRB- Achy , L . The Tourism Crisis in Tunisia Goes Beyond Security Issues , 26 June 2012 	Profit margins are too small
The nature of the internet and mass media on the 21 century is such that many artists can benefit from the freedom and flexibility that creative commons licenses furnish to them . Wider use by other artists and laymen alike helps artistic works go viral and to gain major impact that allow the artist to generate a name for his or herself and to attain the levels of earnings conventional copyrights are meant to help artists generate but that ultimately hamstring them . A major example of this is the band Nine Inch Nails , which opted in 2008 to begin releasing its albums through the creative commons . Creative commons licenses are so remarkable because they can be deployed by artists to expand their markets , and to profit even more from their greater recognition . After all , the artists still retain control of the commercial uses of their work and are guaranteed under creative commons licensing regulations to be credited by users of their content . Giving undue artistic and distribution control to the artists through constricting and outmoded copyright may mean less significant reach and impact of the work . The state should thus facilitate the sharing by mandating the distribution of art of all kinds under creative commons licenses . Anderson , N. , Free Nine Inch Nails albums top 2008 Amazon MP3 sales charts , arstechnica , 7 January 2009 , Creative Commons . About the Licenses . 2010 . 	The creative commons is a more effective means for artists to build and expand their reach and markets than traditional copyright licensing arrangements
The state incurs huge costs in monitoring for copyright infringement , in arresting suspected perpetrators , in imprisonment of those found guilty , even though in reality nothing was stolen but an idea that , once released to it , belonged to the public domain more or less . Furthermore , the deterrent effect to copyright piracy generated by all the efforts of the state and firms has proven generally minimal . In fact , the level of internet piracy of books , music , and films has increased dramatically year on year for several years , increasing by 30 % in 2011 alone . This is because in many cases copyright laws are next to unenforceable , as the music and movie industries have learned to their annoyance in recent years , for example ninety percent of DVDs sold in China are bootlegs while even western consumers are increasingly bypassing copyright by using peer to peer networks . Only a tiny fraction of perpetrators are ever caught , and though they are often punished severely in an attempt to deter future crime , it has done little to stop their incidence . Copyright , in many cases , does not work in practice plain and simple . Releasing works under a creative commons licensing scheme does a great deal to cope with these pressures . In the first instance it is a less draconian regime , so individuals are more willing to buy into it as a legitimate claim by artists rather than an onerous stranglehold on work . This increases compliance with the relaxed law . Secondly , the compliance means that artists are given the vocal crediting under the license rules that gives them more public exposure than clandestine copying could not . Ultimately this adaptation of current copyright law would benefit the artist and the consumer mutually . World Intellectual Property Organization . Emerging Issues in Intellectual Property . 2011 Hartopo , A . The Past , Present and Future of Internet Piracy . Jakarta Globe . 26 July 2011 . Quirk , M. , The Movie Pirates , The Atlantic , 19 November 2009 , 	The costs of monitoring copyright by states , artists , and lawyers far outweigh the benefits , and is often simply ineffective
Current copyright law assigns too many rights , automatically , to the creator . Law gives the generator of a work full copyright protection that is extremely restrictive of that works reuse , except when strictly agreed in contracts and agreements . Making Creative Commons licenses the standard for publicly-funded works generates a powerful normalizing force toward a general alteration of peoples defaults on what copyright and creator protections should actually be like . The creative commons guarantees attribution to the creator and they retain the power to set up other for-profit deals with distributors . At base the default setting of somehow having absolute control means creators of work often do not even consider the reuse by others in the commons . The result is creation and then stagnation , as others do not expend the time and energy to seek special permissions from the creator . Mandating that art in all its forms be released under a creative commons licensing scheme means greater access to more works , for the enrichment of all . This is particular true in the case of orphan works , works of unknown ownership . Fears over copyright infringement has led these works , which by some estimates account for 40 % of all books , have led to huge amounts of knowledge and creative output languishing beyond anyones reach . A mix of confusion over copyright ownership and unwillingness of owners to release their works , often because it would not be commercially viable to do so , means that only 2 % of all works currently protected by copyright are commercially available . Releasing these works under creative commons licenses will spawn a deluge of enriching knowledge and creative output spilling onto the market of ideas . It would mark a critical advancement in the democratization and globalization of knowledge akin to the invention of the printing press . Creative Commons . About the Licenses . 2010 . Keegan , V. Shorter Copyright Would Free Creativity . The Guardian . 7 October 2009 . 	The default of total copyright is harmful to the spreading of information and experience
An individuals idea only truly belongs solely to them so long as it rests in their mind alone . When they disseminate their ideas to the world they put them in the public domain , and should become the purview of everyone to use . Artists and creators more generally , should not expect some sort of ownership to inhere in an idea they happen to have , since no such ownership right exists in reality . No one can own an idea . Thus recognizing something like a property right over intangible assets is contrary to reason , since doing so gives monopoly power to individuals who may not make efficient or equitable use of their inventions or products . Physical property is a tangible asset , and thus can be protected by tangible safeguards . Ideas do not share the same order of protection even now because they exist in a different order to physical reality . However , some intellectual property is useful in encouraging investment and invention , allowing people to engage their profit motives to the betterment of society as a whole . To an extent one can also sympathize with the notion that creators deserve to accrue some additional profit for the labour of the creative process , but this can be catered for through Creative Commons non-commercial licenses which reserve commercial rights . These protections should not extend to non-commercial use of the various forms of arts . This is because art is a social good of a unique order , with its purpose not purely functional , but creative . It only has value in being experienced , and thus releasing these works through creative commons licenses allows the process of artistic experience and sharing proceeds unhindered by outmoded notions of copyright . The right to reap some financial gain still remains for the artists , as their rights still hold over all commercial use of their work . This seems like a fair compromise of the artists right to profit from their work and society right to experience and grow from those works . Fitzgerald , Brian and Anne Fitzgerald . Intellectual Property : In Principle . Melbourne : Lawbook Company . 2004 . Walsh , K. , Commercial Rights Reserved proposal outcome : no change , Creative Commons , 14 February 2013 , 	Intellectual property is a legal fiction created for convenience in some instances , but copyright should cease to be protected under this doctrine
There is a clear need around the world for more donors of organs . In the UK there are about 4000 transplants a year but there are always more waiting , in November 2012 there were 7593 people waiting so on average each will be waiting for almost two years . In Germany there are over 12,000 waiting but only 2777 donations in 2012 . The sacrifice of individual relatives who willingly choose death to save their loved ones therefore brings the need for donations into focus . The media are likely to present heart-breaking stories about loving people who made the ultimate sacrifice . As a consequence , more people will be aware of the issue and wish to fill in donor cards so that they might be able to minimise the number of voluntary donations in the event of their death . Thus there will be more naturally donated organs available and more lives will be saved . NHS Choices , Introduction , 19 October 2012 , Ltticke , Marcus , Germany lags behind in organ donations , , 4 January 2013 , 	Greater awareness will increase donations
We have to be able to measure quality of life relatively . There might be many cases where a relative is terminally ill , yet not dead yet . This person , with a survival prospect of maybe half a year of suffering and medication , might have a perfectly functional organ . It is very rational , both for this person and for society as a whole to allow him or her to undergo euthanasia at an early stage to save the other person . Furthermore , a person might sacrifice his or her life to provide an organ for a specific individual , yet their other organs can still be used to save others , of whom the donor might not have been aware . It is sad that a person has to die , but as this is the only option , it is a good thing that several people might live when one sacrifices their life . Monforte-Royo , C. and M.V . Roqu . The organ donation process : A humanist perspective based on the experience of nursing care . Nursing Philosophy 13.4 -LRB- 2012 -RRB- : 295-301 . Wilkinson , Dominc and Julian Savalescu . SHOULD WE ALLOW ORGAN DONATION EUTHANASIA ? ALTERNATIVES FOR MAXIMIZING THE NUMBER AND QUALITY OF ORGANS FOR TRANSPLANTATION . Bioethics 26.1 -LRB- 2012 -RRB- : 32-48 . 	We should preserve the person with greater quality of life
It is a fundamental principle of the human being is that every human is born autonomous . Therefore , we believe that every person has a right to his or her own body and is thus competent to make decisions about it . This is because we recognise that whatever decisions we might make about our bodies , stem from the knowledge that we have about our own preferences . Nobody can tell us how to value different goods and therefore what matters to one person might matter less to another . If we were to undermine this right , nobody would be able to live their life to its fullest as they would be living their life to someone elses fullest . The extension of this right is that if someone values another persons life over their own it is their informed decision to sacrifice themselves for that person . It is not for others to decide , and in particular not for the State . 	The right to individual self determination is a fundamental human right , equal to that of life itself
It is not fair to ask of a parent to live with the guilt of having been able to save their child and not doing so . Believing that they are guilty of their childs death can cause Post-Traumatic Stress Syndrome , which in turn is a major cause of suicides . Monforte-Royo , C. , et al . . The wish to hasten death : a review of clinical studies . Psycho-Oncology 20.8 -LRB- 2011 -RRB- : 795-804 . 	The guilt may be too heavy a burden for the relative who could have saved a life
We are biologically programmed to want to preserve our species . As such , our offspring will often be more important to ourselves than our own persons . Many doctors hear parents tell them how they wish that they could take over their childs terminal illness rather than have the child suffer . It is therefore natural and right for the older generation to sacrifice itself where possible to save the younger generation . As crass as this might seem , they are statistically more likely to die earlier than their offspring in any event and stand to lose less . They have had the chance to experience more of a life than their child . They are furthermore the cause of the childs existence , and owe it to the child to protect it at any cost . Monforte-Royo , C. and M.V . Roqu . The organ donation process : A humanist perspective based on the experience of nursing care . Nursing Philosophy 13.4 -LRB- 2012 -RRB- : 295-301 . 	It is a natural thing to do
A key reason why countries host the Olympic games is in order to boost their image abroad China held the 2008 Games in Beijing as part of an exercise in national promotion . This would also be an opportunity to change the perceptions of Africa amongst some elements in the outside world , from an inaccurate picture of a third world continent with no features other than poverty and violence to a more accurate depiction of a continent which , while having challenges , is having economic growth and advancing human development . South Africa is the best nation to showcase the development of Africa ; it is Africas biggest economy and one of its most developed . Rabkin , April , Olympic Games all about China , Chinese , , 1 August 2008 , 	Showcase for a nation and continent
yria is falling well behind on handing over its weapons . The deadliest chemicals were supposed to be removed by 1 January and the rest by 6 February . Neither happened . The Syrian government blamed the lack of protective equipment as well as the security situation but the OPCW says it has handed over the necessary equipment . Under a new timetable Syria has pledged to remove all chemical weapons by 13 April , but by the end of March had only removed just over half . If Syria continues to fail to meet deadlines there have to be consequences , including abandoning the mission . Blanford , Nicholas , Months of stalling preceded Syrias latest chemical weapons handover , , 4 March 2014 , , 2014 , 	Syria has not lived up to its commitments
The biggest difficulty with the weapons inspectors being in Syria is that they are a sideshow to the real problem . Yes chemical weapons use is horrific but their use in Syria has caused far fewer casualties than conventional weapons . The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights put the total death toll at 115,000 at the end of September 2013 by comparison the chemical weapons attack that triggered the threat of intervention and therefore the inspections caused somewhere between 136 and 1300 deaths . Syrias having joined the chemical weapons convention and allowed in inspectors may prevent more deaths as a result of chemical weapons but it has not stopped the conflict . Many thousands more will die as a result of the conflict while the international community looks on patting itself on the back that it has somehow managed to find a solution . Stampler , Laura , Group Says Syria Death Toll at 115,000 , , 1 October 2013 , Mroue , Bassem , The United Nations is seeking clarity over the alleged chemical attack in Syria , , 22 August 2013 , 	Inspectors dont solve the real problem
Weapons inspectors are unlikely to actually be able to totally disarm Syria . The OPCW has been given a target of dismantling Syrias arsenal by the middle of 2014 but has admitted that it is a tight deadline that will require temporary ceasefires if the target is to be reached . This is because For any particular move that the team has to undertake , the security situation is assessed . Unless we get the clearance from our UN colleagues , we do n't move . Clearly if the weapons inspectors wont go where there is a high risk to themselves they are unlikely to get the job done . Already inspectors have encountered situations where they cant gain access to sites due to safety concerns . Moreover in a conflict situation it will be extremely difficult to verify that all of Syrias chemical weapons have been dismantled . There are two potential problems will the Syrian government really be honest about the size of its stockpiles or will it quietly keep some back , and will the inspectors be able to gain access to all areas both government and rebel held ? So long as there is conflict there will clearly be a chaotic situation in which weapons could be buried , or hidden , or simply never found . Ensor , Josie , Chemical watchdog chief calls for Syria ceasefire , , 9 October 2013 , BBC News , Syria chemical weapons inspectors hail progress , 17 October 2013 , 	Unlikely to make any progress
Many modern conflicts are L.I.C.s which involve terrorist groups using guerilla tactics . In these situations , there are no clear front-lines , and no clear difference between combatant and non-combatant roles . All women serving in the military are exposed to front-line risks . Attacks on soldiers are as likely to occur on the militarys bases themselves as they are when the soldiers are out on patrol . For example , in late June of 2005 in Iraq , two women marines were killed and about a dozen injured in a pair of suicide attacks . That frontline combat operations are not always much more dangerous than other roles can be shown by the casualties in Iraq comparing the initial invasion and reconstruction phases . The United States lost very few casualties in the invasion phase of the war up to President Bushs declaration of victory on 1 May 2003 with only 138 dead , compared to an overall death toll of 4422 . If men and women are already in practice facing the same risks and as women and men are equal , there should be equality when it comes to being considered being in frontline combat service . 	All modern military roles are combatant anyway
Militaries can use gender-blind recruitment and training processes , treating all candidates the same regardless of gender . This is 100 % fair and some women will certainly succeed in entering combatant roles and will prove themselves the equal or better than the men . For example , several Soviet women have distinguished themselves as snipers and combat aviators . Alternatively , militaries can calibrate recruitment and training to suit female candidates . There is a precedent for this in the U.S. militarys A.P.F.T . -LRB- army physical fitness test -RRB- , which has variations for age . If the test standards can be lowered for older men , they can also be lowered for women . In the modern high technology battlefield , technical expertise and decision-making skills are often more valuable than physical strength . For example , in the American army , performance targets are regularly calibrated for age and position . A forty year-old senior N.C.O . -LRB- non-commissioned officer -RRB- , faces a much easier set of targets than his 20 year-old subordinate , yet both are deployed in an active combat role . 	Differences in physical strength can be overcome
Volunteer military forces face low recruitment and retention rates as a result of it being a tough and stressful job where workers can not work for as long as they do in many civilian jobs . Injuries and trauma caused by fighting also add to the turnover rate of soldiers . As a result it is necessary to widen the applicant pool in order to be able to ensure there are more candidates for the army . Allowing women to serve in combat effectively doubles the possible talent pool available for the military to recruit for delicate and sensitive jobs which require interpersonal skills that not every soldier possesses . The result will be better and more diplomatic soldiers who will be particularly useful in L.I.C.s . 	Allowing women to serve in combat increases the pool for recruits
Modern warfare involves many L.I.C.s , where the battleground is as much hearts and minds as it is physical combat . In a conflict where hearts and minds are important delicate handling of local people is required in order gain their support . In L.I.C.s , women are often better suited to intelligence gathering , medical assistance , policing and mediation than men . They are often perceived as less threatening and more understanding . In addition , they would be better placed to deal with women in the local population . For example , the job of many of the female U.S. marines killed and injured in June 2005 in Iraq was to search women for explosives at checkpoints to avoid the near-universal sense of humiliation engendered by a member of the opposite sex conducting an intimate bodily search . 	Some combat roles are better suited to women than men
There is a fundamental principle that men and women should be considered equal in all walks of life ; and as such should both have an equal role in the military , including being in combat . Not allowing combat roles for women has an unfortunate side effect of increasing inequality in terms of ranks . Combat duty is necessary or highly beneficial for promotion to senior officer positions in many armies . If women can not serve in combat , very few will ever reach the highest ranks of the military ; this creates a glass ceiling that will be very hard to break without this change to allowing women to serve in combat . Women have to be given the same opportunities as men , in the army in order to have the same opportunities they have to be exposed to the same risks . 	There should be equality between men and women .
Space exploration and research have resulted many major advances in science and technology . Everything from Velcro to more efficient and powerful computers has come out of the space program . Many of these developments arose due to the focus on the human element of space travel ; scientists had to focus on the very real challenge of getting humans into space and back home safely . Furthermore , there are some experiments that can only be conducted in space and that require the dexterity and problem-solving skills of humans . While robots are very good at carrying out pre-designed programs and collecting data , their ability to think critically and engage in problem solving is quite limited . In order to get the most of space travel and exploration , humans must be present to add their critical thinking and physical capacity to missions . For technology to continue to develop through the space program the paradigm of exploration must be maintained . This can only be done through manned space flight . 	Some activities in space require human dexterity of both mind and body to succeed
Human history is one of exploration . Since the earliest days of Homo sapiens , people have striven to look beyond the horizon , to see what is out there . It was this impetus that led humans out of the small corner of Africa where the species was born , to see new places , to find new fertile lands to explore . It was this impetus also that led the first European explorers to traverse the great waters of the Atlantic Ocean in search of new trade routes , braving the very real risks of storm , disease , piracy , and fatal disorientation , as well as the perceived risks of sea serpents and other monsters awaiting unwary travelers . When the surface of the world was finally mapped , people set their sights on exploration of the sea floor , to climb the highest mountains , and finally to reach the stars themselves , all because they were challenges , unknowns to be made known . Mankinds place is among the stars . Simply perusing pictures of space sent back by unthinking , unfeeling robots would never be enough to satisfy humanitys curiosity . Governments should not try to slow Mans progress to the stars but should promote and fund it , for to do otherwise is to end part of what it is to be human . 	Humanity in many ways defines itself through exploration , and space is the next logical frontier
People do not get excited when they see robots launched into space ; there is no romance or adventure in a computer attached to a rocket . To enflame peoples imaginations and enthusiasm for space travel , real-life astronauts must be involved . Furthermore , it is harder for people around the world to develop a sense of connection to an unmanned space flight . Manned missions , however , can become ambassadors of all humanity . In no endeavor have scientists from around the world more readily worked together than in the development of the International Space Station and other space-related enterprises . Looking beyond the Earth serves to unite humanity in a way nothing else can . When the Apollo astronauts first transmitted images of the Earth back to the waiting masses , the sight of that tiny blue-white marble suspended in the vast void profoundly changed the way many people viewed themselves . There was for the first time a sense of oneness , of citizenship of this island Earth . In the exploration of space , astronauts are not just citizens of their home countries , but are emissaries of the entire human race . In this way space exploration actually gives mankind a transcendent purpose , promoting peace and understanding among nations that no amount of conventional diplomacy can create . 	Manned space flight excites the human imagination more than unmanned missions , allowing members of nations everywhere to see themselves as part of the same human race
The Earth has suffered a number of catastrophic events in its history . The galaxy is permeated with giant meteors like the one that struck the Earth 16 million years ago , which succeeded in wiping out the dinosaurs and precipitating an ice age . Other cosmic risks exist as well , such as the threat of deadly radioactive waves given off by supernovae that can span the gulfs between stars and scorch planets many light-years away . Likewise , risks closer to home could prove equally destructive . Intense solar flairs from our sun could scorch a whole side of the planet . While all these occurrences are very rare , they remain possibilities , and should any of them ever occur , it could prove the end of humanity , and even life on Earth . In order to guarantee the survival of the human race , manned space flight must be made viable . One day it may prove necessary to leave this cradle of life in pursuit of a new home , and it would be wise to invest in developing the technology to do so rather than to wait until it is too late and only be able to watch as mankinds doom arrives . 	Manned space flight , and the new worlds it would serve to unlock , are essential to the long-term survival of humanity
With the age of consent being 16 and with young people being able to vote at 18 , it does not make sense for parents to have control over whether their children attended sex education classes right up until the age of 19 or whenever they finish full time schooling . The age of consent means that there is clearly a need to be taught about sex from that age of consent . This is something that can not be guaranteed to happen in all individual households if left to the parents whereas it can be ensured in schools . 	Restricting information to children is inconsistent with the age of consent
Young people express their sexuality as part of their development to adulthood . It is not having sex that is a problem , but having unsafe sex or hurting people through sexual choices . Refusing to promote safe sex would mean not moving with the times . Just because schools do not promote safe sex does not mean that adolescents will not experiment with sex . They will already be exposed to sexual imagery and ideas of sex so it is necessary that they are taught properly how to remain safe . Schools may also want to talk about abstinence at the same time ; it is a way of keeping sexually safe . However schools have to recognise that the majority of pupils are unlikely to stick to abstinence regardless of how much the school promotes it . It is therefore necessary for the school to also promote and educate about safe sex . 	Abstinence is an outdated view , based on religious teaching , which may be a personal choice but is not to be expected as the norm for everyone
The internet provides a vast amount of easily accessible information about sex , of varying degrees of quality . Most children in the west now have access to the internet and are therefore likely to have access to this information on sex , or at least educational materials on sex even if the childs access to the internet is controlled . Given that it is impossible to prevent children from accessing this information if they really want to , it makes sense to present it to them in an organised and accurate fashion . Rather than allowing children to find information on their own through what may well be unreliable resources it is necessary that they should get good reliable information . That this information when there is safe sex education comes from the school means that the children know that they information is reliable . They can then use this information to help them decide how reliable any further information they may find from other sources is . 	The information age makes attempting to hide information on sex impossible
The spread of AIDS in the 80s and 90s showed that education and information is more important than ever as exemplified by the slogan in the British 1980s advertising campaign to prevent AIDS AIDS : Dont Die of Ignorance . The campaigns were credited with credited with changing behaviour through warnings on adverts and informing through an information leaflet . This shows that education can work even when starting from scratch . Giving sex education in schools is crucial to the spread of information to each successive generation , and may be supplemented by frank discussion at home . 	Ignorance about sex is the primary cause of the spread of sexually transmitted diseases ( STDs )
Offshoring spurs the development of poorer states . Offshoring relies on the existence of a basic industrial base and certain essential forms of state infrastructure , including an education system . These facilities are likely to be partially or wholly absent in a developing economy . The readily available capital that is located in the developed world , along with the example provided by other developing states that have successfully engaged in offshoring projects incentivises investment in service infrastructure and high quality education . Many contemporary development strategies focus on developing a states industrial and agricultural sectors before its service economy . Expansion of developing states agricultural sectors is already proving to be a politically contentious issue , thanks to the generous and entrenched subsidies that farmers in the developed world are provided with . Resource extraction from developing states is not possible without ceding control of land and hiring of employees to wealthy supermajor oil firms , which exercise an effective monopoly over skilled geologists , miners , scientists and oil drilling experts . Under these circumstances , a conservative approach to development is likely to take an extremely long time to substantially improve economic prosperity and living standards within a poor state . However , an immediate focus on the service sector may allow a state to leap frog these developmental stages . Offshoring provides businesses within a developing state with access to foreign markets far larger than those in their native economy may contain . This will allow offshoring businesses to take advantage of economies of scale and capital inflow in order to develop with greater speed . A states political culture will also stand to benefit from increased outsourcing . Offshore businesses will demand increasingly accountable , predictable and non-arbitrary forms of national governance . A level of reliability and foreseeability is essential in any system of civil law ; so is a restrained , stable government that is prevented from using its power to expropriate private assets or spend tax revenue capriciously . 	Offshore outsourcing accelerates the development of poorer states infrastructure .
Offshore outsourcing lowers the cost of goods and services . There is no real need for all of the goods and services that are consumed within a highly developed economy to be produced in that economy . The sale price of a particular form of good or service is determined by a wide range of factors , including the pay demands made by the workers assembling the good or providing the service . Seeking out a labour force willing to accept lower wages and work longer hours enables a business to reduce the price and increase the overall supply of the products it offers . As more expensive and elaborate goods become available to more people - due to reductions in price - living standards throughout an economy will rise . Concurrently , increased demand for goods produced abroad will lead to increased business for offshore firms that take on outsourced work , leading to more money flowing into developing economies . Standards of living will also increases in these economies albeit at a lower rate than in the import economy . Offshore outsourcing does nothing more than reflect labour distribution patterns that already exist in domestic economies . Different types of activity will be carried out in centralised urban areas - where land and operating costs may be higher - than in the countryside or peripheral , industrialised districts . Certain regions of a state , by dint of geography or earlier investment decisions , may produce a concentration of certain type of worker , service or skillset . Competition within these areas will drive labour costs down but a downward trend in service and production costs will usually lead to an upward trend in demand . This interrelationship has successfully fostered developed within all of the worlds largest economies , without creating unmanageable regional inequalities and without undermining workers rights . Greater social mobility and education attainment within developed economies reduces the availability of the types of skilled and semi-skilled manufacturing-oriented labour that drove first-world economies during the twentieth century . First world nations now compete in knowledge-led economies , seeking to provide research new technologies and provide novel services to consumers in other highly developed nations . The residual power of collective bargaining mechanisms such as unions , coupled with expectations of high pay and highly refined working conditions mean the relative competitiveness of first-world manufacturing industries has dropped . Even if a state were to give preferential treatment to domestic manufacturers and low-level service providers , it would still run the risk of being out-competed by its counterparts in the developing world . Better standards of education , growing personal wealth and the frequent use of credit to purchase assets have created a collective action problem in first world states that practice off shoring . While , in the long-term , the number of highly skilled workers within domestic economies will grow , in the short term , a significant number of older manual and clerical workers may become unemployable as a result of more intense overseas competition . However , side proposition argues that this constitutes a marginal and bearable cost in term of the wider benefits to quality of life that outsourcing achieves . Further , the potential costs of assisting excluded domestic workers to re-enter the job market will be covered by increased taxation and excise revenues resulting from more frequent trade with offshore outsourcing firms . 	Offshore outsourcing is consistent with existing labour distribution patterns .
Offshore outsourcing incentivises wider engagement with education in developing states , for longer periods of time . While - even more so than in the wealthy world - education is seen by citizens of developing nations as offering a path out of poverty or subsistence-level economic activity , worries about property rights , the breakdown of families and communities and the acquisition of essential skills may lead to schooling becoming a lower priority for older children and young adults . The connection between education , skills acquisition and improvements in income and living standards are not immediate . There is little impetus for workers and parents to pay for forms of education that are not directly linked to the sorts of economic activity that are predominant in their communities . In developing states that lack a growing service sector , the value of a qualification in science , accounting or computing can not be immediately realised . This situation may prevent social mobility in one of two ways . Firstly , a child who is only educated to a certain standard , or who is encouraged to gain knowledge that is relevant only to a certain field , may be unable to adapt to changes in his economic circumstances later in life . A worker with training in computing will be able to compete for a much wider range of jobs than someone who only has a basic education that only focused on literacy . Secondly , although it may be possible to educate a teenager on the finer points of irrigation engineering or vehicle maintenance , the utility of those skills will still be limited by environmental factors . A teenager trained to construct a modern irrigation system will still find that his fathers farm fails when it is caught up in a drought or crop blight . By linking education to traditional economic activities , families are unable to take advantage of alternative sources of trade or income . Where a state fosters a healthy service economy , and offers additional benefits to foreign firms who employ its businesses as outsourcing partners , demand for highly educated workers will increase . 	Offshore outsourcing accelerates the development of poorer states citizens .
Another purpose of fines is to provide a deterrent . If fines are applied at one rate regardless of income , they must be low enough not to be un-payable for those who do not earn much money . Consequently , they are set so low that they fail to have a deterrent effect on the richest in society , who are easily able to afford to break the law . This is especially the case when you consider the sorts of crimes that are punishable by fines , e.g . illicit parking and littering . These crimes have an indirect harm , and thus it is easy for the rich to consider that once they have paid the fine they have paid for the damage done , even though in reality this is not the case . 1 Gneezy , U. , Rustichini , A. , 2000 . A Fine is a Price . vol . 29 pp1-17 	The rich are now also deterred
The purpose of a fine is to ensure that the offender faces the consequences of their actions . The extent to which a financial penalty feels like a negative consequence is relative to the amount of income someone has , not to the simple amount that the fine is . That is , if someone earning 200 per week is fined 100 , that will feel more severe than a 100 fine would feel to someone earning 2000 per week . Therefore , if you make fines proportional to the income someone has , all people feel the impact of the punishment equally , rather than the poor facing a punishment with a harsher impact on them than on the rich . 	Rich and poor now face equality of impact of punishment
Fines that are not proportionate to income may create the perception that the rich are immune to the consequences of their actions . This is because people see those earning the least struggling to pay a fine , whilst the rich are able to pay that fine easily , without making any significant sacrifices . Canada is an example of this being the case with two thirds of respondents on surveys saying that the Canadian justice system is unfair because it provides preferential treatment to the rich compared to how harsh it is towards the poor . Making fines proportionate to income would change that perception . People would then see the law being applied in such a way as to punish all , not just certain sections of society . This will improve perceptions of -LRB- and consequently , relations with -RRB- the justice and law enforcement systems . It is important that justice is seen to be done , as well as occurring -LRB- sometimes referred to as the Principle of Open Justice -RRB- , for several reasons . First , we operate a system of government by consent : peoples opinions of the justice system are deemed an important check and balance on the power of the law-makers . Consequently , if they are seen to abuse their power by imposing a law seen to be unfair , they have an obligation either to adequately explain and defend the law , or change it . Second , peoples perceptions of law enforcement in one area spill over into other areas : it is the same police force enforcing all aspects of the law , and so the differences in policy origin are obscured . Consequently , if people deem law-enforcement to be unfair in one regard , they are less likely to trust it in other circumstances . Third , it is important that the justice system is seen to be impartial , rather than favouring any particular group , because it is only under such circumstances that its designations of acts as crimes can be seen as a true reflection of what you ought and ought not to do , rather than just what would be in the interests of a given group . 1 Justice and The Poor , , 10 September 2012 , 	Creates the perception that the rich are not immune to the consequences of their actions
The proposition believes that they have proven that marriage no longer has a social or practical function . This leaves its only function as one of religious significance . However , with the percentage of people in the UK who identify as having no religion having risen by nearly 20 % in the last 20 years and the percentage of people who identify as religious having dropped by approximately the same amount -LRB- British Social Attitudes Surveys 2007 -RRB- . Church attendance is even lower at a mere 6 % -LRB- whychurch.org.uk -RRB- . As a result there needs to be a new more inclusive institution that is open to all religions and those of no religion . It is clear that marriage can no longer perform this function for everyone in society . 	Marriage should be for all by Marriage is a religious institution in a society of declining religion
With pre-nuptials , which essentially amount to pre-planning for divorce , heavily on the rise , and divorces becoming ever easier to obtain , it is clear that our society no longer respects marriage as a permanent institution . Serial monogamy is also becoming ever more common , with 50 % of all divorcees in the UK going on to remarry . -LRB- Office for National Statistics -RRB- Since the purpose of marriage has always been to foster a stable and permanent relationship , it is clearly an entirely outdated institution as it no longer leads to a stable or permanent relationship . 	Frequency and accessibility of divorce undermines the entire purpose of marriage
The main objective of marriage is often said to be bringing up children in a stable environment . However in 2010 in the UK there were 119589 divorces ; 11.1 per 1000 married population . Furthermore in the same year , the median duration of a marriage remained at a low level of 11.4 years . -LRB- Rogers , 2011 -RRB- This clearly does not fulfill the initial basic aim of marriage as so many marriages end In divorce with the resulting splits affecting the children . In fact , a much more stable environment can be provided by a better relationship , even without matrimonial vows -LRB- Cherlin 2009 -RRB- . This relationship should not have to be through marriage ; rather it would simply be a partnership in the way that many couples already live today . 	Does not provide any more of a stable environment for child rearing than a regular monogamous relationship
As explained in the first proposition point , one of the primary functions of marriage is seen to be to raise children . Marriage is therefore seen as the best way to raise children . This undermines same-sex couples and single parent families raising children . The existence of marriage is essentially saying that same-sex couples and single parents are less able of raising children than heterosexual couples . Marriage , therefore , can be seen to promote outdated ideals that our society no longer holds and , as such , is itself an outdated institution . 	Undermines same-sex couples and single parent families as legitimate ways of raising children
The average age , in the UK , to get married is approximately 30 years old . -LRB- Office for National Statistics 1999 -RRB- Life expectancy in the UK is approximately 80 years . -LRB- Office for National Statistics 1999 -RRB- This means the average marriage expects people to commit to maintain a certain way of life for a period that is longer than they have actually been alive . This goes hand in hand with the rise of social acceptability of people having more than one life partner in their life to show that either marriage is an unreasonable expectation of someone or a meaningless charade that is not actually expected to be maintained . -LRB- Cherlin 2009 -RRB- 	Unreasonable commitment to expect of people
`` Everyone has the right to life , liberty and security of person '' , `` Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression '' and `` Everyone has the right to take part in the government of his country , directly or through freely chosen representatives '' are three of the most fundamental tenets of democratic society . The vote ensures that public expression can take place peacefully , instead of violently . Free speech provides a legitimate avenue through which to address the government and ease tensions in society that could potentially turn violent . For these reasons , democracies tend not to suppress their people using violence , as in the case of the Tiananmen Square incident in Communist China or with the `` Tulip Revolution '' in authoritarian Kyrgystan . In fact , democracies tend to have constitutions , which ensure the government can not violently suppress peaceful dissent , and must always honour the beliefs of the majority of its people . Everyone should have a right to live without fear of suppression and with the ability to voice their opinions and beliefs . Because such values are written deep within the heart of the democracies , our governments should seek to export them wherever possible abroad . If Western democracies are to live up to their calling as `` shining beacons '' for all mankind , it should seek to promote democratization as the best means of improving human well-being around the world . 	People are safer and happier under democracy , and countries who benefit from this have a duty to ensure the human rights of everyone in world
Democracy is a universal value which knows no cultural boundaries . The Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that `` Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration , without distinction of any kind , such as race , colour , sex , language , religion , political or other opinion , national or social origin , property , birth or other status '' . It is a fallacy to suggest that we should excuse countries from this clause because their culture seems to preach otherwise . The principles of democracy are something that everyone is entitled to simply because they are right and fair . Democracy should not be reserved as a privilege for those who happen to be born in a culture that already supports it ; we must endeavour to make all countries believe in the veracity of this declaration . 	Democracy is a universal value which is not specific to western world and so should not be reserved as a privilege for those who happen to be born there
Democracy is good for the worldwide economy , as its values of openness and accountability promote the rule of law and good governance in the people 's interest . The threat that the electorate will not re-elect them at the next election forces governments to adopt social and economic policies which will make their citizens richer and more secure . In practice this means creating open markets friendly to inward investment and eager for trade , while reining in corruption , military spending and aggressive foreign policies . China is a good example here . Of course it is by no means democratic , but in order to continue its economic boom it has over the last ten years had to open up its business practices to the world . Integration into the world economy -LRB- for example , joining the WTO -RRB- has led to greater transparency . Because encouraging such policies is clearly in the economic interests of all current democracies , they should actively seek to promote democracy abroad as the best way to achieve wealth . 	Democracy is good for economy as the ability to trade freely and openly with all countries promotes growth and wealth worldwide
The primary justification for democracy promotion is the democratic peace theory . The theory of the democratic peace goes back to Immanuel Kant 's essay ` Perpetual Peace ' , which he published in 1795 ; perpetual peace refers to a state of affairs where peace is permanently established over a certain area , as the Roman and British Empires attempted to do during their respective periods of dominance in history . Kant 's theory was that the majority of people would never go to war , unless in self-defence . Democracies tend not to go to war as often as other countries because their military is more directly under civilian control . Authoritarian governments or those heavily underpinned by their respective armies , by contrast , have no such barriers to whimsical invasions of other countries -LRB- nor the use of the national army to suppress their own people in a bid to solidify power -RRB- . Communist North Korea is just one example of a country whose foreign policy is extremely aggressive as a direct result of its political inclinations . Therefore if all countries were democracies there would be no wars as there would be no aggressors . Given the peaceful nature of democratic states , it is clearly in the interest of the USA to promote democratic change worldwide . 	Democracies are more peaceful countries , both domestically and internationally , and so it is in our interests to promote it worldwide
The threat of a direct military attack on the European member states is very remote . As NATOs new strategic concept acknowledges : Today , the Euro-Atlantic area is at peace and the threat of a conventional attack against NATO territory is low . NATO troops are involved only in crises abroad , such as the war in Afghanistan and NATOs intervention in Libya . These operations do not affect the security of the member states they have no need to maintain expensive armed forces to fight such wars of choice or to help others when there are problems at home . Further , the money that the member states spend participating in such operations could be better spent on things that would really help in these regions such as development aid . 	NATOs European member states are not threatened . They do not need such large armed forces .
The commitment to collective defense remains a core purpose of the Alliance . Article 5 of the NATO Treaty specifically states : The Parties agree that an armed attack against one or more of them in Europe or North America shall be considered an attack against them all . The Treaty goes on to state that NATO states will use the full force necessary to defend against such an attack . This commitment was recently reaffirmed in NATOs new strategic concept : NATO members will always assist each other against attack , in accordance with Article 5 of the Washington Treaty . That commitment remains firm and binding . Furthermore , NATO has already backed up its words with actions : when Article 5 was invoked on September 12 , 2001 , following the attacks on New York and Washington , NATO agreed on , and delivered , a package of measures to support the United States . And the United States , which has the largest armed forces among the Allies is also firm in its commitment to defending other NATO Allies . For example , Rose Gottemoeller , U.S. assistant secretary of state for verification , stated on a visit to Lithuania : The point that I can most clearly repeat and underscore today for you is that NATO will protect NATO ... I know that is a view that is shared by all NATO allies that NATO will protect NATO . So , it seems clear that NATO would defend its European member states if they were attacked , allowing them an opportunity to reduce their armed forces . 	NATOs European member states will continue to be safe because other members -principally the United States - will come to their defense if they are attacked .
If NATO needed to step in to defend Europe , it would be able to call on substantial armed forces . According to Gareth Evans , Chancellor of the Australian National University , NATO has a formidable war-fighting and peace enforcement capacity , in terms not only of the raw numbers of both personnel -LRB- some 2.5 million in uniform -RRB- and equipment -LRB- over 5,000 helicopters for a start -RRB- but also their interoperability , highly professional and integrated military command structure . Indeed , NATO has shown itself to be effective in the past . Evans again argues , NATO has demonstrated in more recent years considerable competence in the actual conduct of military operations , citing the operations in Kosovo in 1999 , Bosnia from 1995 to 2004 , and Afghanistan since 2001 . Given this substantial capability , there can be little justification for continued high levels of defense spending in Europe . 	NATO can already call on substantial armed forces easily enough to deal with any contingency it may face , including territorial defense in Europe .
Given that NATO members will defend one another , and that Three NATO membersthe United States , Britain and France - between them deploy more than 10,000 nuclear weapons , conventional wars are extremely unlikely . As professor Kenneth Waltz argues , Wars can be fought in the face of deterrent threats , but the higher the stakes and the closer a country moves toward winning them , the more surely that country invites retaliation and risks its own destruction . States are not likely to run major risks for minor gains . No likely aggressor is likely to be able to make such gains against Europe as to make the risk of nuclear war worth the risk . 	Countries with nuclear weapons or allied to nuclear-armed states do not need as many conventional forces .
Given that most NATO members have been in a deep recession , and direct military threats to their territories are unlikely , it only makes sense to cut defense expenditure . In the UK , for example , Gaby Hinsliff noted , As a result of the costs of borrowing through a recession , in five years ' time the national debt is forecast to reach 1.3 trillion clearly , NATO members have more pressing concerns than keeping up superfluous armies . Currently , Britain spends over 2 % of its GDP on defense , and Secretary of State for Defence Liam Fox recently admitted that the mission in Libya may cost the UK up to 260 million . With a growing military cost for ammunition , wages and supplies -LRB- such as food -RRB- NATO members can afford no course of action other than cutting their armed forces costs . 	Given the economic situation , NATOs European member states need to cut costs . Cutting defense spending is an obvious way to save money
Law-abiding states like the United States that have yet to ratify the ICC should have nothing to fear if they behave lawfully . The Prosecutor of the ICC is only concerned with the most grave offences and it defies belief that the US would approve a strategy of genocide or systematic mass violations of human rights that could attract the jurisdiction of the ICC . Further , the discretion of the Prosecutor is not unchecked . The Statute requires that the approval of three judges sitting in a pre-trial chamber be obtained before an arrest warrant can be issued or proceedings initiated . Moreover , there is no harm to the interests of the US in being subjected to a mere preliminary investigation . In fact , it is preferable that spurious accusations are briefly examined and shown to be baseless , than that these accusations be allowed to raise doubts about the credibility of a State 's actions and the impartiality of the Tribunal in question . The US acceptance of the jurisdiction of the Prosecutor of the ICTY is evident ; the US troops forming part of the KFOR peacekeeping force in Kosovo could equally be subject to investigation and prosecution by the ICTY . The US is prepared for its forces to operate under the scrutiny of the ICTY since it reasonably does not expect its members to commit the very crimes they are deployed to prevent . 	The ICC allows for the prosecution of war criminals .
Upon signing the Rome Statute in 1996 , U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan stated that ` the establishment of the Court is still a gift of hope to future generations , and a giant step forward in the march towards universal human rights and the rule of law ' . Such statements demonstrate the impact the Court could potentially have , as a body that simultaneously cherishes sovereignty and protects national courts whilst offering a means by which criminals in states unable or unwilling to prosecute will still be brought to justice . As the natural and permanent heir to the process started at Nuremberg in the wake of World War II , the ICC ensures that the reach of law is now universal ; war criminals , either in national or international courts , will be forced to trial as a result of the principle of universal jurisdiction . The deterrent effect of such a court is obvious and a warning to those who felt they were operating in anarchic legal environments . 	The deterrent effect of the Court ensures wide-spread and equal adherence to international law .
The ICC offers a multilateral means by which international law can be brought to bear on the perpetrators of war crimes . As Amnesty International argues , ` the ICC ensures that those who commit serious human rights violations are held accountable . Justice helps promote lasting peace , enables victims to rebuild their lives and sends a strong message that perpetrators of serious international crimes will not go unpunished ' . Furthermore , and for the first time , the ICC has the power to order a criminal to pay reparations to a victim who has suffered as a result of their crimes . Such reparations may include restitution , indemnification and rehabilitation . Judges are able to order such reparations whether the victims have been able to apply for them or not . Though reparations will often not be sufficient on their own for lasting peace , they are a step in the right direction and only made possible by the establishment of the ICC . 	The ICC offers justice to victims of war crimes .
It is a great opportunity for the EU to create partners in the Mediterranean right now . The EU should offset the dilatoriness of its response to the pro-democratic demands with a decided and generous involvement -LRB- in terms of funds , but principally of political will -RRB- in favour of democratic transitions . To do so , it should abandon an approach that is focused , on the one hand , on the ` securitisation ' of Euro-Mediterranean relations and , on the other , on the belief that commercial and economic liberalisation will solve all the problems and bring about democracy and good governance . Stability and prosperity in the Mediterranean can be best achieved with the support of ` strong states ' instead of ` fierce states ' , as has been the case until now . Actively fostering good governance in Arab countries will necessarily translate into new opportunities for societies and economies on both shores of the Mediterranean . To do this , it is all the more necessary to resume the objectives and the ` Barcelona spirit ' of 1995 , since its diagnosis was accurate , although there was a lack of political will , the context was adverse and the means were not tailored to meet the ends . Europe 's credibility as a global player , as well as its own future security and wellbeing will depend , to a large extent , on the EU 's capacity to accompany democratic transitions in its southern neighbourhood and to foster progress in these societies . 	A Changing Mediterranean Brings New Opportunities .
Just as the promise of EU membership was a strong incentive for post-communist countries to democratise and restructure their economies in the 1990s , the offer of a deeper partnership could spur many Eastern and Southern Mediterranean states to embrace liberal reforms . Concepts such as the rule of law , human rights , political accountability , transparent decision-making and open markets are not only necessary for fair access to the EU 's enormous Single Market , they are desirable in their own right . Often they are already being campaigned for by citizens in many of the non-EU Mediterranean countries who do not enjoy their benefits at the moment , although many of their governments react repressively to such demands . As the most successful project ever to promote democracy , security and prosperity , the EU has a responsibility to find ways of extending these benefits to as many people as possible . Catherine Ashton , the foreign affairs chief of the EU has said they stand ready to help Egypt build a deep rooted democracy `` I reiterated that no matter what happens in the next hours and days , the European Union stands ready to help build the deep democracy that will underpin stability for the people of Egypt '' . Only if Maghreb and Mashriq countries think the EU is serious about offering them a real economic and political partnership will their governments make positive moves to reform . 	A partnership will be an incentive to Mediterranean countries to begin the process of democratization .
A Union for the Mediterranean is a necessary foreign policy tool for the EU : it 's the best way of dispelling the notion of a ` clash of civilizations ' . By drawing the Islamic countries around the Mediterranean into a permanent dialogue on specific policy issues and increasing contacts and cooperation , policy makers and opinion leaders will get to know each other better , and learn how to see each other as partners , not enemies . A Union for the Mediterranean will eventually lead to a shared sense of community and respect , as has happened with Turkey . 	Through a union the differences between the Mediterranean countries and the EU countries will fade away .
The changes in the political world , which occurred and are occurring at present in some Mediterranean states show that now more than ever the EU has a partner on their southern flank . The democratization of these states will make them stronger and more stable , which will be of economic and political advantage to the EU . Surely , this process will not be easy , but some of these countries already do have the basis for it.Many middle eastern states already have institutions that are similar to the representative institutions that a stable democracy needs . Arab dictators have grown adept at holding elections , setting up parliaments , constitutional courts etc . as window dressing to show either to their people or to the outside world that they are reforming and are ` democratic ' . No matter how undemocratic these regimes have been the simple existence of these institutions is useful when there is a revolution as they allow some continuity and the possibility of a transition to democracy . To take Egypt as an example . Even under Mubarak it had a parliament with the Majilis Al-Sha ` ab -LRB- People 's Assembly -RRB- as its lower house and Majilis Al-Shura -LRB- Shura Council -RRB- as its upper house . In both houses a majority of the members are directly elected . Egypt held elections for its parliament as recently as November 2010 , these elections had very poor turnout and blatant ballot rigging while the main opposition the Muslim Brotherhood have to stand as independents . While these institutions may not currently be working in a democratic way they could quite easily be changed to being fully democratic . With these institutions already existing , the role of the EU is vital , because it can provide the necessary advice to achieve this reform which will start the entire democratic machine in the Middle-eastern countries . This would create the necessary checks and balances to sustain democracy over the long term . The people are used to elections and will know what to do when they have the option to vote freely , they would vote in a broad range of candidates . Many of them may be islamist but it would be democratic . 	Now it 's the perfect timing for a EU-Mediterranean states partnership .
A Union for the Mediterranean is an ideal foreign policy tool for the European Union . It works just as the EU has worked for over 50 years : by creating a permanent , institutionalized dialogue , the EU can draw strategic partners into real cooperation , not just the more formal procedures of diplomacy . The end goal is to enhance the interdependence of the EU and the other Mediterranean countries so much , that they would effectively become a single economic unit where sovereignty is pooled to solve shared problems . There are examples of such successful cooperation in an international aspect one being the close partnership between the USA and Latin America . There again the main incentive is the economic interest , which both sides share . The United States has implemented comprehensive bilateral or plurilateral reciprocal trade agreements with most of its important trade partners in Latin America . These include the North American Free Trade Agreement -LRB- NAFTA -RRB- , the Dominican Republic-Central America-United States Free Trade Agreement -LRB- CAFTA-DR -RRB- Enhancing social stability through trade-led growth and development has been one long-term goal of FTAs , and thereby more broadly supportive of U.S. regional security goals . -LSB- 1 -RSB- -LSB- 1 -RSB- U.S.-Latin America Trade : Recent Trends and Policy Issues 8/02/2011 	A union with the Mediterranean countries will work as an economic partnership .
Migrant rights is a major diplomatic issue between receiving and source countries , and ratifying the U.N. Convention would improve relations , clearing the way for states to work together to solve other international problems . The diplomacy of western liberal states depends on the principle of rights for all , which is somewhat delegitimized by the unresolved issue of migrant rights . The International Federation for Human rights argues , Non-ratification -LSB- of the U.N. Convention of migrant rights -RSB- brings the core values of the EU into question . If receiving countries were to join source countries in strengthening protections for migrants , it would send a message that they are committed to freedom for all citizens of the world , and so it would improve their legitimacy in international diplomacy . 	Ratifying the U.N. Convention would improve diplomacy between source countries and receiving countries .
Migrants around the world are often seen as second-class citizens , and this inequality is encouraged by legislation . Unless migrants receive equal social and economic rights , they will never be seen as equal in a human sense . According to Article 13 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights , everyone has the right to leave or enter a country , as well as to move within it -LRB- internal migration -RRB- . This freedom of movement is often not granted under current laws . Human rights also include fair treatment under the welfare state , which migrants are often denied . Without this equal treatment , common myths about migrants will continue to be widely believed . These myths claim that immigrants are criminals and that they steal jobs from natives . The organization Migrant Rights says , All these myths rob migrant workers and refugees of their humanity , and are aimed at portraying them as less deserving of our sympathy and help . It is a violation of migrants human rights to be treated this way , and they will only be seen as equals when there is a sweeping change in their legal protections in and between the nations of the world . 	Migrants face a growing human-rights problem that needs fixing .
Migrants face a number of challenges in integrating into a new workforce , and the opportunities to exploit them can be dangerous . These challenges include the right to join unions as well as inhumane working conditions . According to Dr Tasneem Siddiqui , `` In 1929 , the International Labour Organisation -LRB- ILO -RRB- identified migrant workers as the most vulnerable group in the world . Seventy years have elapsed since then , but they still belong to that group . '' Ratifying the U.N. convention would create specific changes in many countries that would finally make migrants less vulnerable . For example , Articles 26 and 40 provide all migrant workers the right to join and form trade unions , which is banned for them in all of the Arab Gulf states . Protecting the right to unionize , allows migrants to fight for their own rights in the workplace , which is the best way to ensure that they will be protected in the long-term . In addition to the right to unionize , the Convention ensures , in Article 25 , Migrant workers shall enjoy treatment not less favourable than that which applies to nationals in the workplace . All states that have not already done so ought to immediately ratify the U.N. Convention so that migrant workers will receive equal treatment in the workplace . 	Ratifying the U.N. Convention would benefit the economies of the countries that have not yet done so
The economic protections in the U.N. Convention are not only good for migrants themselves ; they benefit all countries involved . Migrants move to countries with a lot of work available , but not enough workers . In a globalized world , migration is a market mechanism , and it is perhaps the most important aspect of globalization . The growth of the worlds great economies has relied throughout history on the innovation and invention of immigrants . The new perspective brought by migrants leads to new breakthroughs , which are some of the most important benefits to receiving countries from migration . The exploitation of migrant workers that exists in the status quo creates tensions and prejudices that hamper this essential creative ability of migrants in the workplace . Irene Khan shows that migrant protections are important for everybody involved : `` When business exploits irregular migrants , it distorts the economy , creates social tensions , feeds racial prejudice and impedes prospects for regular migration . Protecting the rights of migrant workers -- regular and irregular -- makes good economic and political sense for all countries -- whether source , destination or transit . '' The U.N. Convention works to combat this exploitation , ensuring equal treatment for migrants in the workplace , and requiring , in many Articles -LRB- e.g . Article 17 -RRB- covering various aspects of political life , that migrants are treated with respect . This will create an atmosphere in which migrants can contribute their invaluable input as well as their low-wage labor , to help boom the economies of the receiving countries that have not yet ratified the Convention . 	Ratifying the U.N. Convention would benefit the economies of the countries that have not yet done so .
Because the issue of migrant rights is a global one , concerned with human rights and the domestic and international actions of states , a U.N. convention is an appropriate solution . The U.N. is the best body to act because although the situation for migrant workers may be slightly different in each state , there are basic rights that they all deserve . In addition , even if each state sought individually to protect migrant rights , they might not be able to , because governing migration takes coordination between states . With international legislation , states would be held accountable for protecting migrant rights ; and , migrant policies and protections would be better coordinated . The international community has helped the global economy adapt to rising globalization , with such bodies as the World Trade Organization , the World Bank , and the International Monetary Fund . Migration is an essential part of globalization , but there is no international body regulating the flow of workers around the world . Jason Deparle of the New York Times writes , The most personal and perilous form of movement is the most unregulated . States make -LRB- and often ignore -RRB- their own rules , deciding who can come , how long they stay , and what rights they enjoy . '' The U.N. Convention would fill this gap . Indeed , the U.N.s solution to regulate migration represents a reasonable and thorough approach . It is reasonable because it does not ask too much of states , requiring only that they provide migrants with basic rights . It is thorough because it provides protection for each of the many challenges and injustices facing migrant workers . Because migrant rights are a growing problem and an essential part of globalization , an international regulatory body would be an effective way of improving human rights around the world . 	The U.N. Convention is the best available mechanism for addressing the widespread problem of migrant rights .
The law should recognise freedom of choice . If somebody wants to marry more than one person , and all parties involved agree , then the state should not get involved . We have a right to privacy , and a right to non-interference in our family life . These are not absolute rights , but they are important : breach of them needs to be contemplated with extreme care and is not merited here . This is particularly important because some religious sects promote polygamy , so banning it also impinges on freedom of religion . 	People should have freedom of choice
More providers can make great contributions to the home . It makes the family unit more efficient , as more people can pursue careers and bring in money , but due to economies of scale , less additional money will be needed for each additional partner . For example , it is cheaper to cook in large quantities than if each person were cooking individually . Similarly , additional people in the house wont need another kitchen or necessarily another bathroom , so therefore its cheaper to live in groups particularly groups with multiple incomes . In addition , there is more likely to be a person staying at home , which saves on childcare . While it will not always be the case there are many ways in which living in groups can be more economical . 	Polygamy makes having a family easier
The idea that the individual can only truly love one person is artificial and false , a product of a particular time , place and culture . In fact , in a study on human societies worldwide , of 1231 societies noted , only 186 were entirely monogamous . Polygamy is not about freedom to fornicate with anyone ; it 's about cementing relationships with individuals one wants to spend the rest of one 's life with , just as in monogamous marriages . 	People can love more than one other person
The Kyoto Protocol failed to reduce global GHG emissions and in the midst of an economic crisis , world leaders were unable to even agree to a replacement treaty when it expired . There is no meaningful global emissions reduction treaty ready for ratification and no reason to be optimistic that one is forthcoming . The developing world believes it has a legitimate right to expand economically without emissions caps because the rich world is responsible for the vast majority of emissions over the last 200 years and per capita emissions in developing countries are still far lower than in the developed world . As such , developing countries will only agree to a global accord that pays for their emissions reductions/abatement . However , the developed world is unwilling to transfer wealth in exchange for a right to emit , particularly at a time when so many have large budget deficits . Given that the growth of annual emissions is being driven by developing countries , many developed countries -LRB- like the US -RRB- believe that any treaty that does not include developing countries -LRB- particularly China -RRB- would be fruitless . 1 . 	Failure to reach global accord
Government , especially in a developed nation and even more so in the wealthiest nation in the world , should be able to ensure that children are not hungry , the mentally ill are not living on the streets , borders are policed , veterans dont live in squalor , the population can read , crime is controlled , the elderly dont freeze to death and a million other markers of a civilized society . This is particularly true of children but most people need a helping hand at one time or another in life . However , the obscenity of children destined to fail before their lives have even started - condemned to schools that offer no hope and communities that offer no safety - would be disturbing anywhere in the world . In a nation that prides itself as having the highest standard of living on the planet - and is unquestionably the richest and most powerful - levels of poverty and despair that are seen nowhere else in the developed world are simply obscene . By every measure , infant mortality , life expectancy , educational standards , child poverty , percentage of incarcerated adults , homicides per thousand deaths and many more , America lags considerably behind Japan , Canada , Western Europe , Australia and the rest of the developed world . All of the indicators mentioned above have been adversely affect during the thirty year obsession with pushing the government back in the name of handing unfettered control over to big business and the vicissitudes of the market . Americans pay lower taxes than Western Europe and get , as a result , a much worse return on their money . 	Ultimately government has a responsible to provide a level playing field to ensure that everybody gets a far start in life and can at least survive throughout it
Government expenditure is the single biggest tool in times of economic difficulty . Those that are the quickest to complain about taxation and regulation during the good times are also the fastest to rush for a bailout during the lean times . Likewise , those that call for tax cuts in a boom also tend to be the first to criticize a deficit or public expenditure during a recession . There is in all of this one simple economic reality : the government acts as the banker of last resort . This only works , as Keynes understood , if the government holds on to reserves in the good years so that it can spend them in the tough ones to stimulate jobs and growth . On the other hand , where surpluses are blown on tax cuts - or expensive wars for that matter - then will be nothing left in the bank and government can not fulfill its most useful role of using its own financial clout to balance the economy over the course of a financial cycle . So-called small government Conservatives have been consistently profligate in recent history and have tended to leave fiscally cautious liberals to pick up the pieces . The party of small government never seems to find itself short of billions of dollars for expensive white elephants like the SDI missile shield or asserting American military power overseas in pursuit of yet another doomed cause whether thats propping up Latin American dictators or settling familial grudge matches in the Middle East . The military adventurism of the Reagan presidency as well as those of both Bush senior and junior were conducted not just at the cost of domestic social stability , but also fiscal security . Instead of preserving a budget surplus from the Clinton presidency , the Bush administration spent it recklessly not , as is widely declared , on the War Against Terror on tax cuts for the wealthiest in society . As a result Bush , his cabinet and his backers robbed the country of the possibility of reserves when the economy was in a less positive situation . As far as the War On Terror is concerned , the total cost of two international wars , $ 1.283 tn , stands in stark contrast to the relatively cheap police-style operation that actually caught Osama Bin Laden . It is also worth noting that of that huge sum an entire 2 % , according to the Congressional Research service , has been spent homeland security anti-terror surveillance and enforcement within the USAs borders . So called Big Government , withholding surpluses for a rainy day , provides financial security for American businesses and workers . So-called small-government presidents spend trillions of dollars on free money to the super-rich and on military adventurism in other countries and , apparently , in space . 	Big government can provide the stimulus the economy needs in the bad years as long as surpluses are not squandered during the boom years
Nobody would deny the role that remarkable individuals have played in the major social changes of history . They have , however , ultimately required the actions of government . Many of these have been achieved despite , rather than because of , the interests of business . Critically they have tended to be to the benefit of the weak , the vulnerable and the neglected . Governments have been responsible for social reforms ranging from the abolition of slavery and child labor to the removal of conditions in factories and on farms that lead to injury and death , in addition to minimum wage regulations that meant that families could feed themselves . By contrast , the market was quite happy with cheap cotton sown by nimble young fingers . In turn profit was given preference over any notion of job security or the right to a family life , the market was quite happy to see water poisoned and the air polluted and in many cases is still happy with it . The logic of the market panders to slave-labor wages to migrant workers or exporting jobs where migrants are not available . Either way it costs the jobs of American citizens , pandering to racism and impoverishing workers at home and abroad . Although the prophets of the market suggest that the only thing standing between the average American and a suburban home - with a pool , 4x4 and an overflowing college-fund is the government , the reality could not be further from the truth . The simple reality of the market is this : the profit motive that drives the system is the difference between the price of labor , plant and materials on one hand and the price that can be charged on the other . It makes sense to find the workers who demand the lowest wages , suppliers who can provide the cheapest materials and communities desperate enough to sell their air , water and family time . Whether those are at home or abroad . The market , by its nature has no compassion , no patriotism and no loyalty . The only organization that can act as a restraint on that is , in the final reckoning , government which has legislative power to ensure that standards are maintained . It is easy to point to individual acts that have been beneficial but the reality is that the untrammeled market without government oversight has had a depressing tendency to chase the easiest buck , ditch the weakest , exploit where it can , pollute at will , corrupt where necessary and bend , break or ignore the rules . It requires government as the agent of what the people consider acceptable to constrain the profit motive . 	Government was required to drive through major changes such as drives for equality within society , universal education , and preservation of the environment . Mostly in the teeth of big business
Ultimately the US Government has to pay its bill just like everyone else . Ultimately maintaining a permanent deficit harms the economy creating both inflationary pressures and effecting interest rates . However , these pressures are not the main source of concern . Although deficits in times of plenty are a grave concern , during a recession most economist agree that deficits may be necessary . However , the US is no longer mostly in debt to itself as has been the case in the past . Increasingly , its debt is owned by the major Asian economies ; especially China . The implications should conflict arise between the two are severe as China , effectively has the capacity to bankrupt the US and the dollar at a time of its own choosing . 	Governments need to live within their means
At the end of the Clinton presidency the government was running at a healthy surplus following the longest sustained period of growth in US history . Bush Chose to spend that on tax cuts and two extremely expensive wars -LRB- the War in Iraq was the mostly costly war , in relative terms , in US history except for WWII -RRB- . Obama was landed with the problems that Bush created , but has chosen to extend spending rather than control the deficit.As The country is no longer at war , there is no real reason to be running at a deficit . Alan Greenspan , and many others , have pointed out that the impact of continued deficits is likely to be higher interest rates at a time when the country can ill afford them which will hurt the economy . 	Many of the reasons for operating a debt have now been eliminated
The first of the baby boomers start retiring in 2011 and , as a result , qualify for Medicare . There are 78 million people in this generation and all of the statistics suggest that they are likely to live significantly longer than previous retiring generations . As a result the US has some very big bills coming in the next few years and a decreasing base of those working and paying tax revenue to pay them . This is really not the time to be wasting money on interest for deficits built up to support programmes that are unnecessary . Paying down the debt frees up tax revenue for much needed support , both financial and medical , for seniors as they retire . 	Paying off national debt via austerity measures would free-up money used for interest payments
The current legislation on drug use in most countries was delivered without canvassing medical opinion and under the influence of public hysteria and moral panic . Seemingly logical but flawed theories linking the use of soft drugs to later use of harder varieties -LRB- cocain , amphetamins -RRB- have often been used both to justify and to promote drugs legislation . The apparent sense of these arguments belies the fact that they have been repeatedly disproven . Lurid , prurient portrayals of the catastrophic consequences of narcotics use in the mass media are frequently used to back up arguments that drugs - even cannabis - are so dangerous that even carefully controlled medical applications are unacceptably risky . It is clearly the case that when any substance has a proven medical benefit it should be available for prescription . Legislation already exists in most countries to contain the possibility of misuse of prescribed drugs . However , it is clearly the case that politicians are avoiding this issue not because there is medical doubt on the matter but because they are incapable of reaching a logical conclusion for fear of hysterical and easy headlines . To withhold treatment from patients who need it on the basis that a tabloid will run a Soft on Drugs story the following morning is the height of irresponsibility . 	For governments to refuse treatment on the basis of an unreasonable assertion is cruel and blindly ideological
Cannabis has been used for medicinal purposes for at least 5,000 years most frequently as an analgesic , that is to say it reduces pain . It also stimulates hunger and can be used as an anti-emetic to control nausea and vomiting . As the DEA Administrative Law Judge Francis L. Young noted in a 1988 ruling , there is no evidence of a fatality resulting from the misuse of cannabis . Indeed the Dutch government currently permits doctors regulated by its Ministry of Health and Welfare to prescribe cannabis to their patients . Further , the Dutch state has licensed a pharmaceutical firm to provide cannabis of a guaranteed level of purity to pharmacies and medical professionals . There are accounts and studies of its successful application to treat the effects of chemotherapy as well as its palliative use in MS and AIDS . For governments to turn their backs on a perfectly useful drug simply to prove a point is confusing at best and petulant at worst . 	Cannabis has many medical properties , notably the alleviation of suffering in chronic diseases . It should therefore be freely available
Any drug , legal or illegal , can be used sensibly or it can be abused . If society bases its decisions on the medical provision of drugs on the presumption of abuse the shelves of most drugstores would be empty . The idea that the burden of proof should be set at demonstrating that nothing else can achieve the same results is absurd lets ban Codeine because Aspirin works just fine . Drugs that have similar effects are distinguished according to the speed , duration and efficacy of those effects , in addition to the drugs side-effects . Different individuals experience the pain-relieving effects of aspirin in different ways . A wider range of individuals may experience a longer lasting reduction in pain if taking codeine . Similarly , an even larger number of individuals respond positively to cannabis . The reality is that we trust doctors to make judgments on what is a sensible course of treatment , not politicians and certainly not a hysterical media . As the law currently stands , politicians are stopping medical professionals from making decisions in the best interest of their patients because nobody wants to be seen to blink first . California and Nebraska already blinked , as have Austria , Canada , Spain and Germany as well as other nations . A failure to recognize this fact is simple political cowardice . 	All drugs can be used for a variety of purposes some appropriate some inappropriate thats a matter of choice , treatment should be based on medical reality
Liberty is one of the highest values human beings strive for . Liberty means that individuals own themselves : individuals only decide for themselves what to do with their minds and bodies during their lifetime . Private property is an extension of this , because private property comes about by undertaking an activity with ones own body or mind : when I pluck apples from a wild apple tree , they become my property through me using my own body to do the plucking . Similarly , free exchange is an extension of this , because it only comes about if both parties perceive the exchange to be beneficial to them : I will only sell the apples I plucked if I get more value in exchange than the value that continued possession of the apples gives me . Free markets are the only system of allocating goods and wealth in society that relies on these basic notions of liberty to operate . If someone becomes rich in a free market , then that came about through free exchange : this person has provided so many goods and services of value to other people , that they gave him or her great wealth in return . Compare this to the government redistributing wealth : that would require the government appropriating part of someones income via taxes . That income is private property . Appropriating private property , not voluntary exchange , amounts to theft , which means that taxes are a form of theft and therefore a significant harm to individual liberty . Free markets dont harm liberty like this , which is why they are morally superior . 	The free market is morally superior because it operates on liberty
Companies in the free market not only compete on price , the also compete on innovation . This is because innovation allows companies to leapfrog the competition by either driving their competitors out of the market by suddenly being able to provide a similar good for a fraction of the cost , or by creating a completely new market for a good or service . In the latter case , the company can expect to reap monopoly-profits for a while until the competition catches up . The corollary of this is that this innovation literally destroys older , more inefficient businesses in a process called creative destruction -LRB- 2008 -RRB- . Currently well-known examples of this are Apples iPad , which created a market for tablet computers that didnt exist before , Microsofts capturing of the PC-software market or Googles search engine , which made the competition irrelevant overnight . These monopolies are , by their nature , temporary : the benefits of creating a new market are so large , that companies structurally and continuously dedicate resources to out-innovate the current monopolies and create a new temporary monopoly for themselves . In this way , innovation becomes the key driver of every business -LRB- 2004 -RRB- . 	The free market best ensures innovation
In a free market , goods are voluntarily exchanged at a price arranged solely by the mutual consent of sellers and buyers . The aggregate market price is the result of all individual transactions and contains important information for both buyers and sellers . When there is more demand than supply , prices rise -LRB- because buyers have to outbid each other -RRB- , making it attractive for new producers to enter the market and thus adding supply . When there is more supply than demand , prices fall , causing some sellers to leave the market since their production costs are higher than the price at which they can sell . Thus , in the long run , markets settle on an equilibrium price where demand and supply are exactly equal . Examples of the free market actually working are all around us : take the supply of the pen and paper used to take notes on . If the price is too high at one store , anyone would move to another store where its cheaper . Therefore , sellers have an incentive to provide the best quality at the lowest price . Central planning can never be as efficient as myriads of individually planning buyers and sellers in reaching this equilibrium . For example , a central planner who sets a price floor will likely create excess supply in that specific market . This has happened in the European Union , where the EU set a price floor on dairy products . The result were the well-known butter mountains and milk lakes . 	The free market is the most efficient way to match supply and demand
A government derives its sovereignty from a social contract with its citizens . Citizens surrender some of their freedoms in exchange for government protection ; if a government does not serve its peoples best interests , it is not legitimate . Thus in any situation where the interests of the American public are not aligned with those of the global population , the US military can not serve the international community without failing to meet its obligation to its own citizenry . Because the American public has the ability to oust a leader that does not promote their interests , the military is much more likely to choose the option of serving American interests . This may not be unreasonable behavior , but it is indicative of the need for other entities - either other nations or international organizations - to have comparable military power to that of the United States . 	The US governments obligation to its own people is mutually exclusive to acting on behalf of the international community .
Western domination is not the answer to political conflict ; it is the cause of many predicaments that result in the violation of human rights in countries in Asia , Africa , and the Middle East today . Former CIA analyst Michael Scheuer , who led the hunt for Osama Bin Laden , wrote in his 2005 book , , that -LSB- Bin Laden -RSB- could not have his current - and increasing - level of success if Muslims did not believe their faith , brethren , resources , and lands to be under attack by the United States and , more generally , the West . Indeed , the United States , and its policies and actions , are Bin Ladens only indispensable allies . The United States unwavering support for Israel and its dubious grounds for invading Iraq are further source of anger in the Arab world . The US justifies its military dominance by arguing that terrorist groups pose a serious threat to American society , and then this military dominance increases support for such terrorist groups . America can not act as the world police because such a system will never lead to peace . 	US unilateral intervention is a form of the Western imperialism that has caused so much of the strife that exists in the modern world .
The U.S. is an independent nation , not an international entity . Thus 96 % of the world population has no voice in its governments decisions . The US government has authority over its own citizens , and it is justified in engaging in war if its citizens are under direct threat . However , citizens of other nations have no means of expressing their opinion in the US government . If the US government abuses its power , these people have no reliable legal means of recourse . Consequently , the US government has no authority to intervene in their affairs . 	The United States is not an appropriate agent for monitoring international security because it is only representative of one nation .
The United States spends approximately $ 700 trillion annually on its military ; China , the worlds second largest military spender , spends $ 114 trillion . The US outpaces other possible peacekeepers by such a large gap that these other powers have little incentive to even try to keep up . Unilateral US intervention undermines international actors such as UN troops because it communicates the USs refusal to submit to the interests of the international community . Thus US military intervention becomes a quick fix which prevents genuine long-term stability 	As long as the United States works unilaterally to quell violent conflict , progress is not being made towards a better , internationally coordinated system .
The US military makes problems worse just as often as it makes them better . The US intervened in Vietnam on the grounds of protecting the free world from communism ; over 58,000 American soldiers and approximately 2 million Vietnamese civilians were killed while the US failed to subdue the Vietcong . The United States provided covert support to Augusto Pinochet after his military coup detat over Chiles democratically elected government under Salvadore Allende because the US feared Allende , a socialist , would promote communism . Today , Pinochet is remembered as a bloody dictator that ruled through terror for 17 years . US intervention in Somalia in 1992-94 resulted in little more than the loss of American lives . The US experienced similarly negatively results during its intervention in Beirut -LRB- 1982-84 -RRB- , Grenada -LRB- 1983 -RRB- , Libya -LRB- 1986 -RRB- , and Haiti -LRB- 1994 -RRB- . More recently , the US has occupied Iraq and Afghanistan for nearly ten years without brining long-term stability to the region . The United States military needs to step down from its self-assumed role as world police officer because it is not effective and its failed attempts lead to huge civilian casualties . 	Failure after failure has made it clear that the US military is not an effective actor for maintaining international stability .
The European Union should not only focus on the present but also try to find a permanent solution in resolving and preventing economic crisis . The solution that is implemented right now through the European Stability Mechanism is a temporary one and has no power in preventing further crisis . First of all , the failure of the European Union to agree on banks bailout is a good example . As economic affairs commissioner Olli Rehn admitted the bailout negotiations have been `` a long and difficult process '' because of the many institutions and ministers that have a say in making the decision . More than that , it sometimes takes weeks and even months until Germany and other leaders in the union can convince national parliaments to give money in order for us to be able to help those in need . Issuing bonds as a union of countries will provide more control to the ECB that will be able to approve or deny a loan one option would be that after a certain limit countries would have to borrow on their own . This will prevent countries from borrowing and spending irrationally like Greece , Portugal , Spain and Italy did in the past . The unsustainable economic approach can be easily seen in the fact that public sector wages in Greece rose 50 % between 1999 and 2007 - far faster than in most other Eurozone countries . Clearly Greece could make the choice to go separately to the market to fund this kind of spending but it would be unlikely to do so . Spiegel , Peter , EU fails to agree on bank bailout rules , , 22 June 2013 , Fox , Benjamin , Ministers finalise 10 billion Cyprus bailout , , 13 April 2013 , Plumer , Brad , Can Eurobonds fix Europe ? , , 29 May 2012 , BBC News , Eurozone crisis explained , 27 November 2012 , 	The long term benefits of Eurobonds
Introducing Eurobonds will lower interest rates for bonds issued by national governments so making the loans affordable . The most recent example of this problem is the need of recapitalization of banks in Cyprus . Although government debt and interest rates were not the direct problem if the government had been able to borrow at low interest rates to recapitalize its own banks then it would have not needed a bailout from the rest of the Eurozone . In order to avoid these kinds of solutions and put people back to work in countries like Portugal , Italy or Spain , national governments need a bigger demand for their bonds so that interest rates go down . Right now , sovereign-bonds are not affordable for the government as their interest rates are extremely high . Greece has an interest rate of 9.01 % , Portugal 6.23 % , and Italy and Spain near 4.30 % . If we choose to bundle the bonds together we will obtain a single interest rate that will lower the price of bonds and permit countries to borrow more , the price would be closer to Germanys than Greeces as the Eurozone as a whole is not more risky than other big economies . More than that , the markets wont be worry anymore of the possible default of countries like Greece ; as the bonds are backed up by the ECB and indirectly by other countries in the union , the debtors will know that their loans will be repaid because in the last resort more financially solvent countries take on the burden . When the risk of default is eliminated , the demand for government bonds will rise and the interest rates will go down . It is estimated that Italy could save up to 4 % of its GDP and Portugal would see annual repayments fall by 15bn euros , or 8 % of its GDP . Soros , George , How to save the European Union , , 9 April 2013 , Bloomberg , Rates & Bonds , accessed 15 October 2013 , Soros , George , How to save the European Union , , 9 April 2013 , Soros , George , How to save the European Union , , 9 April 2013 , 	Eurobonds even up interest rates within the Union
UN Reports indicate that the treatment of detainees since their arrests , and the conditions of their confinement , have had profound effects on the mental health of many of them . The treatment and conditions include the capture and transfer of detainees to an undisclosed overseas location , sensory deprivation and other abusive treatment during transfer ; detention in cages without proper sanitation and exposure to extreme temperatures ; minimal exercise and hygiene ; systematic use of coercive interrogation techniques ; long periods of solitary confinement ; cultural and religious harassment ; denial of or severely delayed communication with family ; and the uncertainty generated by the indeterminate nature of confinement and denial of access to independent tribunals . These conditions have led in some instances to serious mental illness , over 350 acts of self-harm in 2003 alone , individual and mass suicide attempts and widespread , prolonged hunger strikes . The severe mental health consequences are likely to be long term in many cases , creating health burdens on detainees and their families for years to come . Such conditions are clearly not acceptable to a nation such as the US which prides itself on its justice system and respect for human rights . The detention centre must be closed to the US can end its association with such practices . 	Conditions at Guantanamo are unjust and unacceptable :
Prisoners have been detained at Guantanamo for long periods without clear charges being filed and without trial . This is a violation of the international legal principle of habeas corpus . One of the primary problems is that , without clear charges and a presentation of evidence against a suspect , the suspect can not contest the charges and prove their own innocence . And , as a matter of fact , numerous detainees have been found innocent , but only after excessively long periods without being charged or brought before a court . Many Guantanamo detainees may have never committed terrorist acts or fought against US forces in Afghanistan at all ; they were simply turned over by Northern Alliance and Pakistani warlords for bounties of up to $ 25,000 . For almost seven years they have been held without a fair hearing or opportunity to demonstrate those facts . Courts who reviewed the cases of 23 detainees to see if there was reasonable evidence for their continued detention found no credible basis for detaining 22 of them . Other detainees were captured in places where , at the time of their arrest , there was no armed conflict involving US forces . The case of the six men of Algerian origin detained in Bosnia and Herzegovina in October 2001 is a well-known and well-documented example . Therefore the only way to resolve these issues is to try all the detainees at Guantanamo Bay in US courts , and release any against whom charges can not be brought . Former US Secretary of Defense Colin Powell has endorsed this reasoning , arguing that `` I would get rid of Guantanamo and the military commission system and use established procedures in federal law -LSB- ... -RSB- It 's a more equitable way , and more understandable in constitutional terms , '' US courts are fully capable of dealing with terrorist trials , as shown by the fact that they have rendered 145 convictions in terror-related cases in the past . Convictions in US courts would probably be seen internationally as having more legitimacy than those obtained through the current system of military tribunals , which is often viewed as rigged against the defendants . Only by allowing full due process in American courts can the rights of the detainees be uaranteed and their guilt or innocence truly established . 	Detainees have the right to trial in US courts :
The existence of Guantanamo Bay is cited by terrorists as a tool of `` the great Satan '' and is seen by Muslims in general as a demonstration of US disregard for their dignity . It is , in turn , an effective tool used by terrorists and Jihadists to bring recruits on-board . The highly unpopular existence of Guantanamo Bay also makes it more risky for intelligence sources to come out and provide useful information that they might otherwise be willing to provide . This is because , for many Muslims , Guantnamo stands as a confirmation of the low regard in which they believe the United States holds them . Some of this stems from the association of detention at Guantanamo with the specifically anti-Islamic abuses which have reportedly occurred there , such as allegations of having a guard dog carry the Koran in its mouth , guards scrawling obscenities inside Korans , kicking Korans across the floor , urinating on the Koran , ridiculing the Koran , walking on the Koran , and tearing off the cover and throwing the Koran into trash or dirty water . These associations not only make it easier for terrorists to recruit by inciting anti-American sentiments , but also harm the US ' ability to argue that the War on Terror is not directed against all Muslims . President Obama announced in 2009 that closing the Guantanamo Bay detention centre would allow the US to reclaim the moral high ground and thus better prosecute the War on Terror . '' The existence of the detention facility creates a false sense of security and compromises principles of liberty . The US is in a worse position to combat terror abroad when the government makes unprincipled , piecemeal determinations about the cases in which to use preventive detention . 	Guantanamo harms the War on Terror :
It may have been true that countries such as Greece were not capable of looking after their heritage in the past , but that has now changed . Since 197 5 Greece has been carefully restoring the Acropolis and Athens now has a secure environment to maintain the marbles . The state-of-the-art New Acropolis Museum , which cost $ 200m , has now been completed to house the surviving marbles , and even contains a replica of the temple , thus the marbles would appear as being exactly the same as on the real temple . Pollution control measures -LRB- such as installing pollution monitoring stations throughout metropolitan Athens and ensuring that motor vehicles must comply with emission standards -RRB- have reduced sulphur-dioxide levels in the city to a fifth of their previous levels . At the same time the curatorship of institutions such as the British Museum is being called into question , as it becomes apparent that controversial cleaning and restoration practices may have harmed the sculptures they claim to protect . In the 1930s the British museums attempt to clean them using chisels caused irreparable damage . They have also been irresponsible when it comes to protecting the fate of many of its artefacts : The British Museum has sold off more than 30 controversial Benin bronzes for as little as 75 each since 1950 , it has emerged ; The museum now regrets the sales . 	Developing countries are able to guard and preserve their own cultural treasures
Display of cultural treasures in Western museums may be seen as a last hangover from the imperial belief that civilised states such as Britain were the true cultural successors to Ancient Greece and Rome , and that the barbarian inhabitants of those ancient regions were unable to appreciate or look after their great artistic heritage . Whether that was true in the 19th century is open to doubt ; it certainly is not valid today and the display of imperial trophies in institutions such as the British Museum or the Louvre is a reminder to many developing nations of their past oppression . For instance , the British Museum is refusing to return 700 of the Benin Bronzes to Nigeria despite repeated requests by the Nigerian government . The Rosetta stone has been the subject of demands by the Egyptian government but remains in London . These artefacts become almost souvenirs of Imperialism , a way of retaining cultural ownership long after the political power of Britain has faded . Returning them would be a gesture of goodwill and cooperation . 	Retaining artefacts is a relic of imperialist attitudes to non-occidental cultures
Cultural treasures should be displayed in the context in which they originated ; only then can they be truly valued and understood . In the case of the Parthenon marbles this is an architectural context which only proximity to the Parthenon itself can provide . In the British Museum they appear as mere disconnected fragments , stripped of any emotional meaning.It may also be useful for academics to have a cultural property in its original context in order to be able to understand it , for example a carved door may be a beautiful artefact but it can not be truly understood unless we know what the door was used for , where it leads too something for which it is necessary to see the context . Cultural and historical tourism is an important source of income for many countries , and is especially important for developing countries . If their artefacts have been appropriated by foreign museums in wealthy nations then they are being deprived of the economic opportunity to build a successful tourist trade . Both the treasures themselves are being devalued as is the experience of seeing the treasures . 	Cultural artefacts are enriched when displayed in the context from which they originated
Artefacts were often acquired illegally . Elgin , for instance , appropriated the Parthenon Marbles from the Ottoman authorities who had invaded Greece and were arguably not the rightful owners of the site ; he took advantage of political turmoil to pillage these ancient statues . Doubt has even been cast on the legality of the 1801 document which purportedly gave Elgin permission to remove the marbles . The Axum obelisk was seized from Ethiopia by Mussolini as a trophy of war ; fortunately the injustice of this action has since been recognised and the obelisk was restored to its rightful place in 2005 . initially required the return of artefacts removed from their country of origin 1970 , when the treaty came into force , but did not deal with any appropriations before this date due to deadlock in the negotiations for the framing of the convention that prevented inclusion of earlier removals . . However , the 1995 essentially removes the ambiguity about time limitations of UNESCOs 1970 convention . Here , nations are required , in all cases , to return cultural artefacts to their countries of origin if those items were once stolen or removed illegally . International law is thus on the side of returning artefacts . 	Many artefacts resting in western museums were acquired illegally . Western states have a duty to retain them .
Terrorist networks use fear , pain and suffering as their stock in trade . By definition , terror organisations are not bound by legal due process or rights of appeal and review . Instead they deal out death to innocent members of society who have no power to alter the events and policies that motivate terrorists atrocities . By contrast , the first role of governments is to protect their citizens safety and they should use all tools possible to ensure that innocents are not threatened with random death and destruction . In the light of these two realities , it is appropriate for governments to take extreme measure , such as torture , to protect their citizens . 	Terrorist organisations such as Al Qaida do not respect the rights of individuals and the only way to fight fire is with fire
If authorities have good reason to believe that there is a realistic threat of a nuclear explosion in downtown Manhattan or Tel Aviv then it is vital that as much information as possible can be gathered as quickly as possible . If that requires pain to be inflicted on an individual to save the lives of millions then it is simply practical to do so . The harm represented by the pain caused to a single individual is outweighed by the possibility that information gathered from a forceful interrogation might save thousands of lives 	In the event of an imminent attack it is only reasonable to use force to find information
The use of force and fear in enhanced interrogation gives quick results . In the event of a bomb hidden somewhere in Manhattan , its vital to have information quickly . Nobody , even the most diehard proponents of enhanced interrogation , would suggest that it is pleasant or should be used on a routine basis ; the point is that techniques such as waterboarding are effective and fast . Responding to terrorist threats is something that needs to be dealt with in minutes or hours . Unfortunately , it is in the nature of due process and legal procedure that they trials and questioning take place in a framework of days or weeks . 	Time is of the essence in a crisis . When confronted with extremists who see a virtue in their own death , extraordinary methods may be required .
Sanctions are not the will of the American people but of a small minority of embittered Cuban Americans in Florida who are being pandered to due to their importance in elections in a swing state . Congressman Charles Rangel argues that the only success of the sanctions policy has been to appease the Republican constituency in Florida . National opinion generally expresses no preference or opposes the ban , in a 2009 CBS poll asking `` Do you think the United States should or should not re-establish diplomatic and trade relations with Cuba ? '' 67 % said should . Sanctions remaining in place is electioneering government at its worst , domestic interest groups controlling government foreign policy . As Karl Rove has admitted `` When people mention Cuba to me , it makes me think of three things : Florida , Florida , and Florida . '' 	Foreign policy should follow the will of the people
The United States will also benefit from the opening of trade with Cuba economically . Mid-Western Republicans have all voted to drop the embargo because of the potential for profits in their farming states . Even the modest opening of the embargo in 2000 has increased sales of farm products immensely having gone from nothing to $ 344 million in 2010 . This is a market for American products as well as a local producer . Further , if sanctions end Americans will be able to stop pretending that they prefer Bolivian cigars ! 	Economic benefits of ending sanctions
The sanctions cause real and unacceptable harm to the Cuban people . Sanctions deprive Cuba of low cost food that the United States could provide so hitting the poorest yet they do not affect the ruling elite . In the 1990s Cuba lost $ 70 billion in trade and $ 1.2 billion in international loans because of U.S. sanctions . Cuba is too poor a country not to suffer from these losses . The dominance of America in the pharmaceuticals industry , moreover , means that it is actually impossible for Cubans to gain access to many drugs and other medical equipment , including the only curative treatment for some pediatric leukemias . America would be the natural market for most Cuban products , and its refusal to accept goods with even the tiniest Cuban inputs from third nations damages Cubas ability to trade with others . Other South American countries have shown their reliance on the types of loans that Cuba is denied in the last few years to keep their economies on track . 	Sanctions harm the Cuban people .
College admission processes are impersonal and favourably biased towards white , affluent students therefore , quotas specifically for minority students need to be established . College admissions processes are as such because they heavily rely on standard tests or college admission exams . This has caused countries such as Brazil to create quotas for brown -LRB- mixed -RRB- and black students in most universities . These students can not afford the better education enjoyed by their rich , white counterparts , and therefore do not perform well in college exams and do not gain admission into university . Quotas are needed to make the admission process a little bit fairer and increase the number of minorities in university campuses . 	Increase the number of Minorities
Affirmative action is required to change negative perceptions of university life . In the status quo , many talented potential students are put off applying for top universities -LRB- or university at all -RRB- because of their negative perceptions of elite institutions . This perception exists in part because of the makeup of the student population black high school students may see a university filled overwhelmingly with white lecturers and students as not being a welcoming environment for them , and may even perceive it as racist . The only way to overcome this unfortunate stereotype of university is to change the student population , but this is impossible to do organically while so few people from minority backgrounds apply . Therefore , it is necessary to use quotas and other forms of affirmative action , to change the student body in the short term , and encourage applications from more disadvantaged students in the long term . 	Changes negative perceptions of university life
Whilst the freedom of association exists under the state and it is true that people should be allowed to communicate with one another and form groups to forward their personal and political interests , it is not true that the freedom of association automatically grants access to the decision making process . Unions in this instance are problematic because whilst other groups do not have access to special privileges , unions are able to exert a significant and disproportionate amount of influence over the political process through the use of collective bargaining mechanisms . . In the case of unions in the private sector they can cause large amounts of disruption which has a large knock on impact on the economy giving leverage over politicians for whom the economy and jobs are always important issues . For example unions in transport in the private sector are just as disruptive as in the public sector . Even more minor businesses can be significant due to being in supply or logistics chains that are vital for important parts of the economy .1 The access to the decision making process that unions are granted goes above and beyond the rights that we award to all other groups and as such this right , if it can be called one at all , can easily be taken away as it is the removal of an inequality within our system . Further , even if collective bargaining were to be considered a right , the government can curtail the rights of individuals and groups of people should it feel the harm to all of society is great enough . We see this with the limits that we put on free speech such that we may prevent the incitement of racial hatred .2 	Collective bargaining is not a right
The public sector is often significantly overpaid . The workers within the public sectors of Western liberal democracies often get paid more than people of equal education and experience who are employed in the private sector . In the United States there is a salary premium of 10-20 percent in the public sector . The reason this happens is that collective bargaining means that workers can often , through the simple idea that they can communicate with the government and have a hand in the decision making process , make their demands much more easily . Further , governments in particular are vulnerable during negotiations with unions , due their need to maintain both their political credibility and the cost effectiveness of the services they provide . This is significantly different to private enterprise where public opinion of the company is often significantly less relevant . As such , public sector workers can earn significantly more than their equally skilled counterparts in the private sector . This is problematic because it leads to a drain of workers and ideas from the private sector to the public . This is , in and of itself , problematic because the public sector , due to being shackled to the needs of public opinion often take fewer risks than the private sector and as such results in fewer innovations than work in the private sector . 	Collective bargaining leades to pay crises in the public sector
The bargain between normal unions and private enterprise involves all parties being brought to the table and talking about the issues that they might have . However , the public sector represents the benefits of taxpayers , the politicians and the unions . The power that unions exercises means that negotiations can happen without the consent or involvement of the public sectors stakeholders , the public . Even though power in a democracy is usually devolved to the politicians for this purpose , given the highly politicised nature of union negotiations , government office-holders who supervise union negotiations may act inconsistently with the mandate that the electorate have given them . This is because public unions often command a very large block of voters and can threaten politicians with this block of voters readily . This is not the same as a private business where officials arent elected by their workers . As such , collective bargaining rights for public union undermine the ability of taxpayers to dictate where their money is being spent significantly .1 	Collective bargaining undermines the democractic process
The opportunity of NATO membership creates the incentive for the newly independent republics to achieve internal stability . The criteria for NATO membership include stable democracy ; civilian control of the armed forces ; a sufficient military capacity to make a meaningful contribution to collective security ; and the absence of active disputes on or within the borders of the State . This incentivisation is critical given the European Union was and still is expanding slower than NATO many new NATO members such as Albania are years away from achieving EU membership . NATO membership will help these fledging States to help themselves . 	NATO expansion would benefit eastern European and post Soviet states
Enlargement was necessary to prevent Europe reverting to type . The rise once again of the ethnic and religious causes of war . And this is still a reason for NATO to expand to help stabilise Europe . The Balkans is only the worst area for Ethnic tensions ; there are similar cases all over Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union . The history of Eastern Europe has been one of empires not the nation state . Stalin had a policy of divide and rule ; he made sure each soviet republic included substantial minorities in order to prevent the growth of nationalist movements . Stalin only continued a long tradition of ethnic movements within empires in Eastern Europe . The Balkan problem for example is considered an effect of the Ottoman empire ; hence the Christian/Moslem divides in Bosnia and Kosovo . The Austrian Empire settled people on its frontiers in much the same way ; the result is that none of the eastern European states is ethnically homogeneous . The Violent break-up of Yugoslavia showed the way many other states could potentially go , NATO wished to avoid this and enlargement was its best solution . 	NATO expansion was , and is , necessary for international stability
Peace has many foundations and no one international organisation can create all these foundations itself . NATO is therefore just as necessary to the peace of Europe as the OSCE or EU and all of these organisations need to expand to cover the states within Europe to promote peace . NATO therefore in its Message from Turnberry its response to the end of the cold war - express our determination to seize the historic opportunities resulting from the profound changes in Europe to help build a new peaceful order in Europe , based on freedom , justice and democracy . Collective defence is as necessary as economic cooperation in creating peace , this is something that in Europe only NATO can provide . Peace is also promoted by NATO through the security cooperation that it provides ; building trust between the member states . This need for trust and equality between the parts of Europe was also explicitly stated by NATOs Secretary General when he stated Without enlargement , we would permanently frustrate the ambitions of countries of Central and Eastern Europe for inclusion in the transatlantic security and defence community . That would perpetuate an unnatural and potentially dangerous division between a prosperous , secure and self-confident West and an insecure and uncertain East . NATO enlargement helps heal this fault line and shows the cold war in Europe is really over . 	NATO is a fundamental part of the international architecture used to further peace and prosperity in Europe
The European Court of Justice -LRB- ECJ -RRB- has long treated the founding treaties as the constitutional documents of the European Union . Many commentators have noted the efforts of the ECJ to constitutionalise many principles such as the direct effect and supremacy of Community law over the domestic laws of member states and the increasing protection of human rights The ECJ is often overstepping its bounds when it comes to applying and interpreting the treaties . The ECJ has often been accused of judicial activism in over-stepping the legitimate boundaries of courts in a democracy . By enshrining much of this creative jurisprudence in a democratically ratified constitution , the EU can assert and emphasise its status as a democratic entity , rather than an elite-driven process separate from the citizens of Europe . 	The ECJ has often been accused of over-stepping the legitimate boundaries of
A comprehensive reform of the EU institutional layout is a must given the pressures created by the continuing enlargement process as well as the integration process . The existing EU architecture worked fine for a community of six states , and even for a group of twelve , but it is now desperately out-dated and unsuitable for a Union of 27 or more . For example , the national veto still applies in many areas , meaning one state can block progress even when the other 26 agree . Even when agreement is reached , it is often agonisingly slow and difficult to implement across the whole of the Union , often having to pass through every parliament . As a result EU decision-making has often been criticised as slow , complex and producing too many lowest common denominator solutions , therefore Ireland can bring to a halt a vital treaty like Lisbon and the role of the Presidency and foreign minister is a compromise that does not result in more unified policy . While still leaving the people feeling distant from the EUs political processes , undermining legitimacy . A Constitutional Treaty is the only comprehensive tool that exists right now in order to allow for this necessary overall reform . 	A comprehensive reform of the EU institutional layout is a must
Since the Maastricht Treaty , the citizens of EU member states have possessed parallel citizenship of the EU . However , European citizens do not identify themselves with the EU in the way that citizens of the USA self-identify as American . An important part of the patriotism of Americans is constitutional patriotism ; pride in their constitution and civic institutions . The European Union aims to bring about ever closer union between the peoples of Europe . It should foster a shared sense of European identity by adopting a constitution , in which every citizen of the EU can take pride . 	A EU constitution will foster a European identity
The current treaty-basis for the European Union is enormous , ambiguous and extremely complicated . The existing treaties regulate multiple levels from the constitutional to detailed market regulations . As a result of this individuals can not easily read and understand the treaties as a US citizen for example . It is difficult to keep track of each new Treaty that amends the pre-existing treaties . The adoption of a shorter , clearer document will make the EU much more user friendly . The EU currently suffers from the fact that many of its citizens do not know what it is or what it does ; EU citizens either do not know where to look for this information or are deterred and intimidated by the size of the Treaty of Rome and the Maastricht Treaty . Having an easily digestible constitution will mean that the EUs citizens can easily find out what the EU is and what it does . 	The current treaty-basis for the European Union is enormous , ambiguous and extremely complicated
The image of female beauty promoted by beauty contests is culturally specific and western - it doesnt matter how many Asian women win Miss World , they can still only do so if they take part in the swimsuit competition , which may well not be considered appropriate dress in their culture . This clash of cultures has led to numerous protests , demonstrations and even violence when beauty contests are going on . There were demonstrations against Miss World by feminists and Hindu nationalists when it was held in Bangalore in 1996 . Riots in Kaduna in northern Nigeria over Miss World 2002 left more than 200 dead and led to the contest being moved to London . 	Beauty contests are culturally insensitive
Other animals may not have the same level of sapience as humans , but they feel fear , stress , exhaustion and pain just as we do . It is immoral to derive pleasure either from the suffering or forced performance of another living being , especially when that being is under ones power and control . It would of course be absurd to suggest that animals should have equality with humans on the level of having the right to vote or of criminal responsibility , but they should have equality with us on terms of , that is , pain and suffering should be equally significant whether it is a human or an animal that feels it . 	The use of animals in sport demeans humans
As long as animals are treated as property , their interests will always be subsidiary to the interests of their owners . To treat animals as property simply because they are not human is specieism and no different to discrimination on race or gender . For humans , not being a slave is the practical prerequisite of all other rights . So too must it be for animals . Making the treatment of animals more humane is an inadequate solution because it does not change the fundamental problem of exploitation . 	Treating animals as property prevents them from being perceived as part of the moral community
The circus is another arena in which human beings abuse other animals . Animals are trained to perform tricks using whips , electronic goads , sticks , food-deprivation etc . . Wild animals such as lions , tigers , and elephants are kept in shamefully inadequate conditions in tiny spaces . The necessity of regular transportation means that the circus can never provide an appropriate home for wild animals . These animals are forced to travel thousands of miles in cramped and squalid conditions and frequently end up physically and mentally ill . And what for ? Purely for the entertainment of we arrogant exploitative humans . What sort of lesson does it teach our children about non-human animals to take them to the circus and see these great creatures demeaned and controlled by force to perform silly tricks ? Horses and dogs are among the principle victims of exploitation in human sporting activities . The main purpose of horse - and dog-racing is for human beings to indulge their penchant for gambling . The welfare of the animals involved is at best a secondary concern . Horses are frequently injured and die in horse races , especially races over hurdles such as the infamous British ` Grand National ' ; they are also blinkered and whipped to make them run faster , even the British Horseracing Authority has accepted the use of the whip needs to be limited out of concern for the welfare of the animals . Or the Riverside -LRB- Washington -RRB- Suicide Race , where horse often die from the nearly 400 foot steep grade of the suicide hill , the riders trying to make it down and through a river . It is unconvincing to claim that the animals can enjoy being subjected to this . As for the conditions the animals are kept in , these may be good for the top dogs and horses , but in the main conditions are poor , and once the animals cease to win races they are likely to be neglected , abandoned , or slaughtered . Horses are also forced to take part in the dangerous contact sport of polo in which collisions and a hard , fast-moving puck pose serious danger to the animals who , unlike their riders , have no choice in whether they take part . 	Animals are harmed when used as objects of entertainment , no matter how innocent that entertainment is
All sorts of hunting , shooting , and fishing boil down to slaughtering other animals for pleasure . If the prey is a pest -LRB- e.g . foxes -RRB- , or needs culling -LRB- e.g . hares , deer -RRB- , there are always more humane ways to kill it than hunting it to the point of terror and exhaustion with a pack of hounds - e.g . killing it with a rifle shot . If the prey is being killed for food it is entirely gratuitous . In modern society people do not need to kill food for themselves but can buy it from a source where animals have been killed humanely ; indeed no-one needs to eat meat at all and for moral , health , and environmental reasons they should not -LRB- see vegetarianism debate -RRB- . As for fishing , again there is absolutely no need to catch or eat fish ; even when anglers throw their catch back in they have first put a hook through its palate . 	Blood sports can not be justified by reference to their role in pest control or conservation
What is War ? The AUs declaration does not define it . Ending all conflict is ambitious , ending only inter state war in Africa on the other hand is not . The vast majority of conflicts in Africa have been internal . The only true inter state conflicts have been the wars between Israel and Egypt , the Eritrean-Ethiopian war , the Uganda-Tunisia war , and the Second Congo War . None of these are ongoing . The only conflicts that might count as inter-state that might be considered ongoing are the situation in Western Sahara and border clashes between the Sudans . Western Sahara might be considered to be frozen with very few deaths as a result of it and the Sudan conflict is in large part a result of the border being new . Wikipedia , List of conflicts in Africa , accessed 10 January 2014 , 	Not all conflict is war
The African Union has been taking a much more active stance in preventing and resolving conflict . Since 2003 responsibility for peace in Africa has been with the Peace and Security Council . This body has authorised AU interventions in Somalia , Sudan , Burundi , and the Central African Republic . The African Union is not the only organisation engaged in peacekeeping ; the Economic Community of West African States -LRB- ECOWAS -RRB- has also been actively engaged in peacekeeping , having been deployed in numerous conflicts since the 1990s , most recently in Mali where they took part alongside French forces in defeating an Islamist insurgency . The AU is also boosting its collective capacity to respond to crises creating the African Standby Force made up of five regional brigades of 4000 soldiers . This force , when complete , will enable rapid deployment anywhere in Africa so helping to prevent crises becoming full scale wars . Peace and Security Council , , 23 July 2013 , News24 , Ecowas urges members to send troops to Mail , 23 October 2013 , Cilliers , Jakkie , The African Standby Force An update on progress , Institute of Strategic Studies , March 2008 , 	The increasing effectiveness of the African Union
Conflict in Africa is slowly being ended . In 1992 there were 18 conflicts in Africa ; by 2009 this had been halved to 9 . But a decline in the number of conflicts is not the only positive trend in African conflicts : there has also been a decline in the size of wars . They have changed from wars between two organised armies to being small scale insurgencies . In 1984 the conflicts were on average causing more than 20,000 battle deaths per year , but by 2008 only around 1,000 . Even the number of incidents of genocide and mass killing has been going down from 9 in the 1980s to five in the 2000s . Ending war might therefore be considered to be ambitious but it is not against the trend and not inconceivable . Straus , 2012 , pp.183-184 Straus , 2012 , pp.189-191 	Progress in ending conflict in Africa
While the Congo is mostly navigable it is only usable internally . The rapids cut the middle Congo off from the sea . The building of the dams could be combined with canalisation and locks to enable international goods to be easily transported to and from the interior . This would help integrate central Africa economically into the global economy making the region much more attractive for investment . 	A dam could make the Congo more usable
Only 29 % of Sub Saharan Africas population has access to electricity . This has immense consequences not just for the economy as production and investment is constrained but also on society . The world bank says lack of electricity affects human rights People can not access modern hospital services without electricity , or feel relief from sweltering heat . Food can not be refrigerated and businesses can not function . Children can not go to school The list of deprivation goes on . Conveniently it is suggested that the Grand Inga will thus provide more than half of the continent with renewable energy at a low price , providing electricity to half a billion people so eliminating much of this electricity gap . World Bank Energy , Addressing the Electricity Access Gap , , June 2010 , p. 89 The World Bank , Energy The Facts , , 2013 , , SA-DRC pact paves way for Grand Inga , , 20 May 2013 , Pearce , Fred , Will Huge New Hydro Projects Bring Power to Africas People ? , , 30 May 2013 , 	The dam would power Africa
DR Congo has been one of the most war ravaged countries in the world over the last two decades . The Grand Inga provides a project that can potentially benefit everyone in the country by providing cheap electricity and an economic boost . It will also provide large export earnings ; to take an comparatively local example Ethiopia earns $ 1.5 million per month exporting 60MW to Djibouti at 7 cents per KwH comparable to prices in South Africa so if Congo were to be exporting 500 times that -LRB- at 30,000 MW only 3/4ths of the capacity -RRB- it would be earning $ 9billion per year . This then will provide more money to invest and to ameliorate problems . The project can therefore be a project for the nation to rally around helping create and keep stability after the surrender of the rebel group M23 in October 2013 . Woldegebriel , E.G . , Ethiopia plans to power East Africa with hydro , , 29 January 2013 , Burkhardt , Paul , Eskom to Raise S. Africa Power Price 8 % Annually for 5 Years , , 28 February 2013 , 	Will enable the rebuilding of DRC
The Grand Inga dam would be an immense boost to the DRCs economy . It would mean a huge amount of investment coming into the country as almost all the $ 80 billion construction cost would be coming from outside the country which would mean thousands of workers employed and spending money in the DRC as well as boosting local suppliers . Once the project is complete the dam will provide cheap electricity so making industry more competitive and providing electricity to homes . Even the initial stages through Inga III are expected to provide electricity for 25,000 households in Kinshasa . Movement on the Grand Inga Hydropower Project , , 20 November 2013 , 	An immense boost to DRCs economy
Perhaps the most important values in the Philippines are social harmony and respect for the family . The Reproductive Health bill undermines both . Allowing contraception will take away a psychological barrier that prevents pre-marital or casual sex and once that barrier is crossed the individual will have higher sexual activity . In the Philippines this will mean greater numbers of teen pregnancies and pregnancies out of marriage because abortion will remain illegal . In terms of politics these values mean support for democracy but also being against corruption and graft . Obviously the bill has been very politically divisive so undermining social harmony but also to pass this bill many parliamentarians had to be bribed so undermining this social harmony . The Reproductive Health bill represents the worst excesses of the pork barrel buffet . With a single-mindedness of purpose , the presidential palace has put everything on the table to shore up the votes required in parliament . Legislators , who had previously voted against the legislation , often repeatedly , where threatened with the loss of programmes in their constituencies if they failed to back the project , which has been at the heart of the presidential agenda . Dolan , Ronald E. , ed . , . Washington : GPO for the Library of Congress , 1991 . Arcidiacono , Peter , et al . , Habit Persistence and Teen Sex : Could Increased Access to Contraception have Unintended Consequences for Teen Pregnancies , P. 30 Talisayon , Serafin D. , Teaching values in the natural and physical sciences in the Philippines , , Philippine Daily Inquirer . Philip Tubeza . Philippine President accused of bribing Congress . Reported on Yahoo News 19 December 2012 . 	The bill violates the Philippine values of harmony and respect
The population of the Philippines are overwhelmingly Catholic , it seems reasonable to accept that many , if not most , accept the teaching of the Church that safe sex is married sex . Appropriate sexual relations between husband and wife can lead to a fulfilling family life including children . However , freely available contraception leads to a rise in premarital sex with the rises in unwanted pregnancies that go along with that . In the US , women having premarital sex increased from 2 % in 1920 to 75 % in 1999 , a period that saw a massive increase in the availability of contraception . . This runs against the teaching of the Church , which , itself , is one of the cornerstones of Filipino culture . The first Mass was celebrated in 1521 and by the early 1600s , Catholicism was unquestionably the countries dominant creed . The teaching of the Church on this issue is absolutely clear and for four centuries those have been the values of the Filipino people . This bill undermines that understanding , it will lead to an increase in pre-marital sex with devastating consequences for , particularly , the young people of the archipelago . There is a reason why the Church argues against contraception and those values that sex should take place within marriage , are deeply ingrained in the Filipino way of life . Greenwood , Jeremy and Nezih Guner Population Studies Center PSC Working Paper Series University of Pennsylvania .2009 Bishop Filomeno Bactol , Naval diocese continues fight against RH , . CBCP News . , 23 December 2012 , 	The appropriate setting for sexual relations is within marriage , contraception encourages pre-marital sex
This has been an urban and political obsession from the outset . The idea that the hungry and homeless need condoms more than food and shelter is clearly absurd . The poor would be better helped through accessible education , better hospitals and lesser government corruption . Rather than interfering in the moral life of the nation , parliamentarians would be better exercised in tackling these concerns . This issue has consumed political energy for over a decade and received massive national and international attention and yet there are far more pressing concerns for the nation and its political leaders . Instead this bill , which carries the marks of both political and moral corruption has been the main focus of the president and congress . At the very least this suggests a questionable sense of priority , at worst a gross lack of interest in the welfare of the Filipino people . Villegas , Socrates B. , Contraception is Corruption ! , , 15 December 2012 , 	Poor families would be helped far more by investment in education and healthcare
It is clear that any individual , no matter his chosen area of expertise needs the appropriate environment to achieve his maximum potential . The people involved in professional sports are no exception . They need coaches to guide them , stadiums in which to practice , sponsorship and funding to allow participation at some competitions . Any person who succeeded in making a career in sports partly owes it to the society he grew up in that provided these facilities and opportunities . Let us not forget that especially in poor areas , most of the sports trainings are done pro bono by good Samaritans who want to lend a hand . Therefore , as other people invested in their development , every sportsman has the moral duty to pass on that help , and also lend a helping hand towards those who werent as privileged . Representing the nation is a part of this moral duty to repay that which the country has given . This improves the image of that country and allows it to get the recognition in deserves for bringing up such talented players . Cristiano Ronaldo is one of best paid soccer players in the world and mainly got to where he is due to his talent , determination and countless hours on the pitch . But he was also born in Portugal , where he took advantage of the entire football industry that exists there . If he had been born in Sri Lanka , his talent would have gone unnoticed . 	A moral duty to play for your country
Currently , Super PACs are organizations that can receive unlimited contributions , which encourages the belief that the amount of money contributed is directly correlated to the amount of influence the donor could have . By permitting individuals or corporations to make unlimited contributions , the current legislation undermines the democratic character of the elective process . Political figures related to the sponsored Super PACs have an incentive to satisfy the needs of those who contribute huge amounts of funding towards their campaign rather than meet the needs of the average citizen . This is not the way that democracy should be ; it must represent the viewpoint and needs of the majority of the population , not just the small fraction of it that is wealthy enough to effectively pay for policies they want . Furthermore , caps on contributions to Super PACs will bring competition in elections back into the mainstream and when more citizens contribute to politicians , they will be more engaged in politics . For example , the pass of the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act -LRB- BCRA -RRB- eliminated soft money for parties and attempted to handle the elections contributions through PACs . With the elimination of soft money for parties , the role of interest groups investment decreased in the 1990s . Obamas campaign in 2008 raised 114.1 million or 34 % of his general election fund from small contributions . His unprecedented small donor fundraising success can be interpreted as increased credibility and public visibility for Obama and through this the benefit of mobilizing lots of small donations . In 2008 , Obama used online communications and social networking tools to reach and mobilise more people . In effect of this approach , he not only inspired an unprecedented number of young and retired people to get involved in the campaign , but also achieved the highest rate of small contributions . Malbin , Michael , Anthony Corrado , Thomas Mann , and Norman Ornstein . `` Reform in an Age of NEtworked Campaigns . '' . By Robert Boatright . New York : International Debate Education Association , 2011 . 84-106 . Print . Franz , Michael . `` The Interest Group Response to Campaign Finance Reform . '' Campaign Finance : The Problems and Consequences of Reform . Ed . Robert Boatright . New York : International Debate Education Association , 2011 , 2011 . 66-83 . Malbin , 2011 . 	Neither individuals nor corporations should be permitted to make unlimited contributions
When a corporation and an individual are both trying to achieve the same goal , they should be able to do so in the same way . It would be unfair if the campaign finance reform limits the amount that an individual could contribute , but not that of a corporation when it is apparent that corporations are contributing considerably larger amounts than individuals as seen in the case of the pharmaceutical industry . Corporations need to have the same rights and limitations on campaign contributions and economic freedom . This was why the US Supreme Court ruled that the federal ban on spending by corporations was unconstitutional under the First Amendment Act in 2010 . This led to the Super PACs because they represent an association of people and have the right to freedom of speech and political preference . Reforms , such as Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act -LRB- BCRA -RRB- may have been successful in curtailing interest groups role as investors in campaigns , they failed when it comes to candidate advocacy as a result of super PACs . Such regulations that limit large-scale political spending from interest groups serves to limit speech crucial to political groups without a broad base of support or political entrepreneurs like Swift Boat Veterans for Truth that got its message aired when the national media was ignoring the issue . Moreover , bans on corporate contributions did not prevent alternative ways for candidate advocacy , such as the private satellite radio station of the National Rifle Association or the movies made by the Citizens United These alternative ways could undermine the principle of fair and transparent campaigns more than the lack of such limit on spending from individuals and corporations and their political expression . Smith , Bradley . `` The Myth of Campaign Finance Reform . '' Campaign Finance : The Problems and Consequences of Reform . Ed . Robert Boatright . New York : International Debate Education Association , 2011 . 46-62 . 	In regards to free speech , corporations should have the same rights as individuals if they are spending money on the campaigns .
Campaign finance reform gives the individual donor a voice more comparable to other donors interests . At present , the enormous amount of money channeled into campaigns by large corporations , unions , and special interest groups through PACs overwhelm the smaller , limited contributions of individual donors . Reforming the super PACs and limiting these large group donations would increase the significance of donations by individual voters , likely increasing the responsiveness of candidates to voters/donors and so increasing their accountability to their electorate . Additionally , the increased significance of individual contributions encourages voter participation and activism . 	Stopping super PACs would place an emphasis on actual issues rather than politicians selling themselves .
A further reform limiting super PACs would have the effect of leveling the playing field for candidates . Candidates with enormous leadership potential but small wallets have failed due to the lack of resources . Under a reformed campaign finance system , it will be more difficult for well-financed candidates to win purely because of the money they have . Incumbent candidates have a unique advantage over challengers in the present system because of their direct connections to important sources of money . Campaign finance reform will make elections more competitive and thus enhance higher turnover or `` fresh blood '' in politics . This is essential for challenging old orthodoxies and bringing in new ideas . It will also make it easier for members of ethnic minorities and the working class to seek office - such groups are disproportionately deterred from candidacy by the current need to raise large sums of money . Quantitative analysis of elections involving incumbents from twenty-five states across three election cycles indicate that more stringent campaign finance laws increase the likelihood of new challengers to the current incumbent . Financing laws limiting fundraising increase the likelihood of minority-party and independent challengers and produce higher rate of election competition . As a result challengers feel they have better chances against the incumbents . Hamm , Keith E. , and Hogan , Robert E. , Campaign Finance Laws and Candidacy Decisions in State Legislative Elections , Campaign Finance : The Problems and Consequences of Reform . Ed . Robert Boatright . New York : International Debate Education Association , 2011 , 2011 . 171-191 . 	Further reforms would create a level playing field
Allowing anonymity of contribution to Issue Ads and to Super PACs only amplifies the corrosive effect money has on American politics . Without knowing where the funding for particular Issue Ads come from , the intentions of contributors can be obfuscated and issues can be easily branded into political palatable campaigns by allowing contributors to keep themselves and their agendas hidden . Using names such as the America Future Fund and the Coalition of American Seniors political allegiances and agendas are hidden from view , removing a much needed critical evaluation of those who contribute and what their ends are . Further to this , the anonymity of Super PACs make it easy for foreign contributors , who are banned by US law from contributing to campaigns , to secretly contribute to campaigns , helping to skew American democracy by giving undue political influence to foreign corporations and their interests . Anonymity of Super PACs allows people to obfuscate their intentions and turn campaigns into opaque propaganda , removing the capacity for proper democracy and political debate . `` Campaign Finance : Ignore that $ 800,000 behind the curtain . '' 04 Oct 2010 , n. pag . Web . 30 Nov. 2011 . ibid `` ibid Parnell , Sean . `` A campaign finance ` reform ' twofer from Think Progress . '' . Center for Competitive Politics , 05 Oct 2010 . Web . 29 Nov. 2011 . 	Anonymity increases the distortive effects of money in American politics .
According to a report published in 2011 -LSB- 3 -RSB- a great number of pupils in England are struggling after starting secondary school and 3 out of 10 pupils are not making enough progress in English . If pupils are not making the required progress in basic English then it is difficult to understand the motivation behind teaching complex poetry . If a student is unable to do basic multiplication it makes no sense to ask them to do complicated mathematic equations . The same is true in English : pupils who struggle with things like grammar and vocabulary should not be expected to tackle complicated poetic structures . 	Students need to study the basics of language not a complex form such as poetry
There are people who dedicate their lives to studying poetry and still have trouble understanding its meaning . If these people constantly debate the nature of poetry how can school children be expected to properly understand it ? It is difficult to teach because poetry can have multiple meanings ; -LSB- U -RSB- ntil education theory asks itself what poetry itself is , and therefore what the teacher is trying to get across , poems will continue largely to figure as teaching aids , exercises and for teenagers increasingly tedious , somewhat arbitrary puzzles '' -LSB- 2 -RSB- and therefore poetry will remain of little worth in the classroom . The greatest poets write about adult experiences , e.g , love , work , history , politics , solitude etc . . As a result great poetry requires an adult mind to grasp its full meaning and teaching it in schools means that students develop a disliking for poetry before they are even fully capable of appreciating it . 	Poetry is too difficult for school students
The gradual decline of their body , the failure of their organs and the need for artificial support . In some cases , the illness will slowly destroy their minds , the essence of themselves ; even if this is not the case , the huge amounts of medication required to control their pain will often leave them in a delirious and incapable state . At least five percent of terminal pain can not be controlled , even with the best care . Faced with this , it is surely more humane that those people be allowed to choose the manner of their own end , and have the assistance of a doctor to die with dignity . One particular account was of Sue Rodriguez who died slowly of Lou Gehrig 's disease . She lived for several years with the knowledge that her muscles would , one by one , waste away until the day came when , fully conscious , she would choke to death . She begged the courts to reassure her that a doctor would be allowed to assist her in choosing the moment of death . They refused . Rodriguez did not accept the verdict and with the help of an anonymous physician committed suicide in February 1994 . 	Those who are in the late stages of a terminal disease have a horrific future agead of them
The impact on the family who remain can be catastrophic . Often because they were unaware of how their loved one was feeling . Suicide cases such as Megan Meier , an American teenager who committed suicide by hanging herself in 2006 , as the parents have to launch police investigations into why their child might have felt so desperate . By legalising assisted suicide , the process can be brought out into the open . In some cases , families might have been unaware of the true feelings of their loved one ; being forced to confront the issue of their illness may do great good , perhaps even allowing them to persuade the patient not to end their life . In other cases , it makes them part of the process : they can understand the reasons behind their decision without feelings of guilt and recrimination , and the terminally ill patient can speak openly to them about their feelings before their death . 	Suicide is a lonely , desperate act , carried out in secrecy and often as a cry for help
Perhaps the most basic and fundamental of all our rights . However , with every right comes a choice . The right to speech does not remove the option to remain silent ; the right to vote brings with it the right to abstain . In the same way , the right to choose to die is implicit in the right to life . The degree to which physical pain and psychological distress can be tolerated is different in all humans . Quality of life judgements are private and personal , thus only the sufferer can make relevant decisions . This was particularly evident in the case of Daniel James . After suffering a spinal dislocation as the result of a rugby accident he decided that he would live a second-rate existence if he continued with life and that it was not something he wanted to prolong . People are given a large degree of autonomy within their lives and since deciding to end your life does not physically harm anyone else , it should be within your rights to decide when you wish to die . While the act of suicide does remove option to choose life , most cases in which physician assisted suicide is reasonable , death is the inevitable and often imminent outcome for the patient regardless if by suicide or pathological process . The choice for the patient , therefore , is not to die , but to cease suffering and tto chose the time and manner of their death . 	Every human being has a right to life
Children should receive the same legal protection from violence as adults . It is wrong that parents can deliberately inflict pain to the extent that if inflicted on an adult it would justify prosecution . In a number of countries , including the United Kingdom , children are the most vulnerable members of society , yet the only group which can be legally assaulted . The Council of Europe which monitors compliance with the European Convention on Human Rights ruled in 1998 that smacking violated childrens rights against cruel and degrading treatment . Furthermore , as Time reports , a hundred years ago it was considered a novel idea for the law to say you couldnt hit your wife . Todaychildren are the only class that is unprotected . This is not right , childrenneed more protection and not less . It is time to right this wrong . 	Children should receive the same legal protection from violence as adults
The existing mechanisms to catch abusive parents are entrenched in most societies ; child abuse claims are often the result of third-party observers , often teachers , calling the police or child services . Such a system would be expected to play a greater role in societies with a ban on smacking initial penalties would be financial only , to ensure that parents are taken away from their children only if they have proven themselves repeat offenders . This charge would only be if the child is under 12 years of age . Parents who feel that smacking is an appropriate tool of discipline have to give up the privilege to physically discipline their children for the sake of protecting children that arent being hit once in a blue moon or in a light way , but are really being hit day after day , many times a day . 	Parents caught smacking their children would be punished by fines or , if repeated , jail
Smacking is harmful to society as normative forms of violence spill over into criminal forms . As corporal punishment is a significant factor in the development of violent behaviour in childhood and later life , an outright ban would help measures to reduce violence and crime . Banning smacking would also help to promote the concept of zero tolerance of violence between all family members and thus reduce all forms of domestic violence , as well as reducing bullying between children . As Sir Al Aynsley-Green , Children 's Commissioner in England , has noted , ` we continue to send out confusing messages to parents about the acceptable use of violence across society . A strong , consistent message needs to be applied , starting with a total ban of smacking . 	Permitting smacking sends message to society that violence is acceptable
The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child requires the countries to protect children from `` all forms of physical and mental violence '' . The Committee on the Rights of the Child , its international monitoring body for the Convention , emphasises that even physical punishment within the family is not compatible with full implementation , and has formally recommended prohibition to the UK and other countries . In 1999 the European Court of Human Rights found that the beating by a father of his stepson constituted `` inhuman or degrading punishment '' . The law in Britain and other countries that tolerate smacking should be brought into line with European law to ensure the respect of basic human rights . 	The child has the right to be protected from all forms of violence
Only an outright ban on smacking will enhance child protection . The number of children reporting being beaten to the point of bruising in Germany has declined from 3 in 10 to 3 in 100 since 1992 after a ban was introduced in Germany . A culture that tolerates smacking makes it easier to conceal graver abuse . Frequently , incidents of abuse reported by children are not investigated , or the cases abandoned as the abuse is written off as a case of `` legitimate punishment '' . A total ban enables child protection workers to give the parents of children at risk of abuse a clear message that no level of corporal punishment is acceptable . A parent who still continues to smack their child would no longer be able to hide behind the defence of `` reasonable chastisement '' . In European countries with a longstanding smacking ban , there has been an increase in the early detection of children at risk , and a decrease in the proportion of parents who are subsequently prosecuted . 	Smacking will lead to abuse
Multilateral aid tends to be less tied to the political self-interest of individual donor countries . One criticism of bilateral aid arrangements is that they are often drawn up based on self-interest . Major powers who provide international aid have tended to direct their aid to former colonies or countries with which they have significant strategic ties , economic interests or potential markets . Often , aid money must be spent on goods or services from the donor country . While the United States does not have as developed a colonial history as some other major donor states , it does have a history of providing aid to countries it sees as strategic partners . This was particularly true during the Cold War , but has now emerged as a practice in the war on terror . Aid that is given multilaterally is therefore much more likely to go to developing countries on the basis of need , and of where it has the most potential for good . 	Multilateral aid is based on need , not self-interst
Multilateral aid , particularly when delivered through NGOs or the UN , allows for the efficient pooling of financial resources . Much as when an individual makes a donation to a major charity , their small contribution goes much further when combined with those of many others . Particularly in the face of pressure to reduce foreign aid , America can still make a significant impact on development in other parts of the world through combining resources with other donors . By contrast , bilateral aid arrangements are often short-term and subject to change at short notice as a result of political or economic shifts in the donor country . Amidst growing fears of a U.S. debt default next week , for example , the Foreign Operations Subcommittee of the House of Representatives has cut bilateral economic and development assistance to the rest of the developing world by an average of around 25 percent . Multilateral aid programmes are therefore more stable and can plan more usefully for the long-term . 	Multilateral aid is a more efficient economic model .
Multilateral aid arrangements tend to avoid unnecessarily coercive conditions . One of the strongest criticisms of bilateral aid is the tendency for donor countries to place strict political , diplomatic or economic conditions on the receipt of that aid . For example , the United States greeted Pakistan 's cooperation with the war on terror with a generous economic and military aid package , worth more than $ 18.7 billion between 2002 and 2010 , despite years of sanctions previously . Countries receiving development loans have often faced requirements for changes in internal policies on a range of issues not always directly tied to the aid itself . 	Multilateral aid agreements avoid coercive political sanctions .
Some rights are inalienable , guaranteed to all human beings and can not be violated with any justification . The right to bodily integrity is perhaps the most fundamental right we enjoy as civilized human beings . FGM is a form of illegal body modification and the mutilation of those too young to give their informed consent . Most are not given the choice as they would be socially marginalized if they were ` uncut ' . Genital mutilation may leave a lasting mark on the life and mind of the woman who has undergone it . In the longer term , women may suffer feelings of incompleteness , anxiety and depression . FGM is also a form of violence against women and a direct expression of patriarchal oppression . FGM has been practiced by some cultures solely in order to maintain the chastity and virginity of a woman before marriage , to ensure fidelity during marriage , and to increase male sexual pleasure . FGM additionally violates her right to equal opportunity , to not be discriminated against , to freedom from violence , injury , abuse , torture , cruel or inhuman treatment , protection from harmful traditional practices and the freedom to make reproductive decisions , all of which are protected under international law . It takes a woman 's body out of her own control , and ultimately inflicts long term pain and suffering , none of which can be justified . 	FGM is a human rights violation and a form of oppression of women .
While many believe that FGM is associated with the tenets of a religion , this is in fact not the case . Different religious leaders condone , deem it irrelevant , or discourage it , but there is no one religion that explicitly says FGM is a necessary practice . Therefore , banning FGM is not declaring a religion wrong and does not debunk the fundamental beliefs of a group of people . Instead , it is competing with a cultural practice that shows a womans purity , considered to be harmful to her . Cultures change and adapt as they come into modernityfoot binding is no longer practiced in China , although it was a deep seeded tradition . However , as long as it remains culturally valued for women to be cut and men only want to marry cut women the practice will continue . Therefore , there needs to be a total ban on the practice so that all women are uncut otherwise , not undergoing the procedure will continue to carry stigma in some societies . The practice has been replaced within some groups , with one that celebrates and serves the same purpose , but does not involve cutting . FGM is not a necessary part of religion and the fundamental beliefs of the groups that practice it . So , it is not insensitive to ban it . And , a ban is the only way to make being uncut the norm within these cultures . 	FGM is not tied to any religion and therefore not insensitive to ban .
Immediate complications of female genital mutilation include severe pain , shock , hemorrhage , urine retention , ulceration of the genital region and injury to adjacent tissue . Hemorrhaging and infection can cause death . Long-term consequences include cysts and abscesses , keloid scar formation , damage to the urethra resulting in urinary incontinence , dyspareunia -LRB- painful sexual intercourse -RRB- and sexual dysfunction , as well as difficulties with childbirth . More recently , concern has arisen about possible transmission of the human immunodeficiency virus -LRB- HIV -RRB- due to the use of a single instrument in multiple operations . The fundamental goal of human society is preservation , and it is the responsibility of world-wide organizations to safeguard human sustainability . This goal is compromised in cultures that practice FGM . Deliveries to women who have undergone FGM are significantly more likely to be complicated by caesarean section , postpartum hemorrhage , and episiotomy , extended maternal hospital stay , resuscitation of the infant , and inpatient prenatal death , than deliveries to women who have not had FGM . It was estimated in a June 2006 WHO study that 10 to 20 babies per thousand births die during delivery as a result of the practice of FGM . Additionally 25-30 % of women who undergo FGM are left infertile . FGM jeopardizes maternal and infant health and therefore can not be justified . The health consequences that it causes mean it should not be allowed to continue . 	The practice jeopardizes women 's health and livelihood .
Global institutions are better equipped to comparatively analyze the facts about FGM and therefore need to prohibit the practice of FGM so that those ignorant to the consequences of the practice will be protected . Global organizations are also the only bodies that can ensure that marriage networks give up the practice simultaneously so that no woman is socially handicapped . This process proved successful in China in the early 20th century when the practice of foot binding was rapidly abandoned . It requires sufficient funding for large scale education efforts and adequate enforcement , a financial requirement that only these large organizations can meet . Human Rights declarations and treaties , like the UN Declaration of the Rights of the Child , which draw upon local cultural and religious notions of common sense , justice and dignity , are often the best way to promote human rights and change the cultural norms that violate them . After all , every country has signed up to these universal standards , and it is our moral duty to enforce them , for example by threatening to withhold aid from states which are not serious about tackling the FGM issue . Benin , Burkina Faso , Central African Republic , Chad , Cote d'Ivoire , Djibouti , Egypt -LRB- Ministerial decree -RRB- , Ghana , Guinea , Kenya , Niger , Nigeria -LRB- multiple states -RRB- , Senegal , Tanzania , Togo , Australia , Belgium , Canada , Denmark , New Zealand , Norway , Spain , Sweden , United Kingdom , and the United States have all banned the practice . Making this an international policy would support their actions and promote more of the same . 	Large international organizations are best equipped to combat the practice .
Prosecutions are the only way for victims to see those who caused pain against them brought to justice . The alternative of some kind of reconciliation often leaves those who perpetrated crimes able to retain power as has happened in countries like Bosnia and Herzegovina , Colombia and Guatemala -LSB- 1 -RSB- . When this happens there is clearly a concern both that these individuals are not being held to account and that they could act in a similar way again if given the opportunity . Under the United Nations Genocide Convention of 1948 , victims have a right to see offenders prosecuted -LSB- 2 -RSB- . And it is only prosecution that will ensure that such acts can not occur again so giving peace of mind to victims . -LSB- 1 -RSB- Osiel , Mark J . Why Prosecute ? Critics of Punishment for Mass Atrocity 118 Human Rights Quarterly 147 -LSB- 2 -RSB- Akhavan , Payam , Beyond Impunity : Can International Criminal Justice Prevent Future Atrocities ' , 95 -LRB- 1 -RRB- , 2001 , pp.7-31 	Prosecutions are needed for victims
By introducing internationally based prosecution , the laws are able to effectively filter down into the domestic system . The international system takes care of powerful offenders who might otherwise not receive a fair trial or be brought to justice . This then allows domestic courts to prosecute those involved in the crimes at a lower level . This has worked in Ivory coast where the former leader was brought to face charges committed at home and also helped stabilize the situation in the country -LSB- 1 -RSB- . -LSB- 1 -RSB- Smith , David , Laurent Gbagbo appears before international criminal court , thegurdian.com , 5 December 2011 , 	International prosecution encourages domestic justice
Unless we do something about it we risk seeing our planet destroyed . The destruction of forests for coal or agricultural land , the destruction of farmland through illegal buildings lacking proper infrastructure , water pollution , deserting arable land in the countryside in order to move to the city are all serious environmental problems and their effects are long lasting -LRB- Hande , Powering our way out of poverty , 2009 -RRB- . Subsidies need to be used to provide incentives for people to act in ways which will preserve the environment for the benefit of all -LRB- Hande , Powering our way out of poverty , 2009 -RRB- . 	Substandard living conditions have a broad environmental impact
Subsidies help create the equality and non-discrimination that is essential in the new multi-cultural states of today . With more and more people moving across the globe and the clear realization of inequalities in lifestyles , creating this sense of equality is essential . If we are serious about our commitment to universal human rights , including the right to equal survival chances and opportunities , then we need to consider using subsidies to promote these values . Many of the poorest areas have a disproportionate number of immigrants or ethnic minorities , Seine-Saint-Denis for example has the largest percentage of immigrants in France -LRB- Wikipedia , Demographics of France -RRB- and is one of the poorest departments -LRB- Astier , French ghettos mobilise for election , 2007 -RRB- so these communities are where the state needs to show that it is committed to non-discrimination by helping with subsidies . Without such a commitment to equality , problems like the unrest in the suburbs of Paris , the reaction to the flooding of New Orleans , crimes in the favelas of Rio de Janeiro and South Africa will simply become uncontrollable . 	Subsidies create a sense of social equality
Poor communities , often concentrated in rural areas or around large cities , carry a large risk for social instability , whether through epidemic illnesses , crime , drug abuse or political and social revolts . Even the most developed countries find it difficult to deal with these communities without paying proper attention to their development . The suburbs of Paris have recently been in the attention of the press for the violent riots led mainly by poor , unemployed , young men from immigrant families who felt abandoned by their own government -LRB- BBC News , Timeline : French Riots , 2005 -RRB- . France is by no means the only country dealing with such problems , and in order to avoid such high-risk behaviour , the state should be encouraged to create new subsidy schemes that address these communities in particular . For example , employment could be subsidised by paying companies to create new jobs in such deprived areas . 	Subsidies are the most efficient way for a state to redistribute wealth within its borders .
Homework does not only take up time doing the homework at home but also takes up time in class . First there is the time that the teacher takes when explaining the task . Then more time is taken going through the homework when it is done and marked . This time could be better spent engaging with the class to find out what they do and dont understand . The answer to this is to have more time in class rather than boring homework . 	Homework takes up class time
Especially if we get too much homework it can take the enjoyment out of learning . No matter how engaging the teacher is in class homework will almost certainly be stressful , boring and tiring . It is simply much harder to make homework engaging and interesting as it is often done on our own . We know that there is no direct link between how much homework is set and grades . Studies done on this come to different conclusions so teachers should only set homework when they are sure it is needed . When we only get homework occasionally we will consider that piece more important and a better use of time . 	Homework puts students off learning
Time is valuable . We all need some time to ourselves . School already takes up a lot of time and it is necessary to have time which does not involve concentrating on learning . Education is not the only important activity in everyones day ; physical activity , play , and time with family are just as important as all teach life skills just in different ways . The internet makes it possible to be learning at home , there are even many computer games that help with learning . Homework clashes with these other activities . It can damage family relationships as it means parents have to try and make their children do their homework . 	When out of school we should have time to ourselves
New technologies have broken down traditional social relationships which provide stability and are important for psychological health . Many individuals are increasingly becoming self-absorbed in videogames and autonomous lives on the internet without making lasting connections with people face-to-face . Technology is not necessary for a fulfilling life , as the Amish show by avoiding technology which damages the community and harms social relations . 	New communications have dissolved traditional families and led to the creation of harmful new relationships .
Advances in technology have increased the destructive capacity of conflict by enabling killing to occur much more rapidly , as can be seen by the destruction of the First and Second World Wars with their unprecedented number of deaths . More advanced societies , or rather those with more destructive technology have been able to subjugate and oppress other societies with different value structures , such as Native Americans , Aborigines and all other colonised peoples . The development of Weapons of Mass Destruction has raised the threat of total global destruction . Science has produced the means for more suffering in an almost infinite capacity , which surely outweighs the benefits towards healing the sick . 1 . 2 . 3 . 	Science enables much greater destruction
Science has moved into new areas which violate the boundaries of morality . Research into cloning of persons and animals is taking place , as well as work on genetic manipulation . Such work is reckless and involves taking the position of God as an entity which decides what forms of life to create . Genetic testing involves the abuse of animals , which are used merely as tools in studies to increase knowledge . 2 . 	The manipulation of life is Playing God .
Technology allows governments and those in authority to develop more powerful means to monitor citizens and control discussion . The totalitarian governments of the twentieth century -LRB- such as Stalinist Russia -RRB- utilised modern technology to monitor and indoctrinate populations . Even in democracies , monitoring of communications and centralisation of information makes it much more difficult for an individual to oppose actions they do not consider moral as any attempts to organise against it could mean arrest . It is no longer the case that citizens can chose to opt-out of control by a higher body by withdrawal to less controlled areas , such as the countryside . 2 . 	Science has created new means for the state to control the lives of its citizens .
The pursuit of industrialisation and the use of modern technology require the generating of enormous amounts of energy . Such production creates severe damage to the environment via pollution . Renewable energy is currently expensive and difficult to reliably produce . Humanity is treating itself as more important than the billions of other life-forms on earth who have rights themselves . The damage to the environment also threatens to leave the earth uninhabitable , which would also harm humanitys interests . 1 . 2 . 3 . 	Science leads to the damaging of the environment
All schools and schoolchildren need to be protected yet not all schools are anywhere near a source of protection . Arming some teachers is most urgent in areas police provision is scarce due to diminished funds . Places like Harrold county in Texas have a sheriffs office situated 17 miles away , and unlike more urban areas they can not afford to hire district police officers . With the law enforcement officers so far away a lot of children could be killed before there could be any possibility of response from any police of law enforcement agencies . Arming teachers in predominantly rural areas of the USA is therefore a logical and necessary step to protect schools that do not already have dedicated protection . McKinley , James C. , In Texas School , Teachers Carry Books and Guns , , 28 August 2008 , 	Not all schools have police available to protect them .
If school teachers , as people in positions of authority over vulnerable groups , were permitted to carry arms then it would guarantee greater protection for children . Incidents in recent years such as the massacre at Columbine High School have proven that a significant risk exists of school children gaining access to guns and using them against their classmates . The carnage could have been prevented if the teachers present had been able to defend themselves and the children in their care as teachers would be able to act as a first line of defence . Furthermore , having schools as arms-free environments specifically makes them a target , those looking for targets are more likely to choose schools because they are less likely to meet armed resistance . Incidents include a school in Lincoln , Nebraska where a 17-year-old shot his vice-principal before killing himself . Lawmaker Mark Christensen , who had previously been opposed to teachers carrying arms , introduced legislation in January this year after the incident . It illustrates how the potential for harm could be reduced if adults in responsible positions could defend themselves and those in their care . Hernandez , Selena , Should Teachers Carry Guns On Campus , CBS 11 News , 21 January 2011 , Huffington Post , Teachers Carrying Guns : Nebraska Senator Mark Christensen Introduces Bill To Keep Schools Safe , 18 January 2011 , 	Arming teachers would mean safer schools
An incident in Medford , Oregon in 2007 illustrated how teachers need to be able to protect themselves as well as their students . Gun lobbyists claimed teacher Jane Does reasons for wanting to be armed while teaching were based on the restraining order against her ex-husband , who had made threats against her and her children . Although local laws dictated that only law enforcement officers could brings guns onto a school campus , she challenged it on the grounds of her own personal safety . In a country like the USA where ordinary civilians can own guns , people often feel the need to carry arms for the sake of self-protection . If people are allowed to do this in their own homes , then if the threats persist while they are at work by extension they should still be allowed to exercise self-protection . Knickerbocker , Brad , Should teachers be allowed to pack a gun ? , , 18 September 2007 , 	Teachers need protection just as much as students
A single , universal provider of broadband would allow the government to rationalize the management and development of the service . Multiple private service-providers ultimately end up causing three serious problems . The first two are straightforward , that private firms competing in the same area waste money creating multiple distribution channels that are unnecessary for the number of consumers , and that when they opt not to compete they end up dividing up territory into effective utility monopolies . The third problem is especially salient to the state when it is attempting to provide for everyone : many areas are too sparsely populated or economically underdeveloped that private firms are unwilling to invest in them ; these areas are entirely dependent on state intervention to allow them to get broadband access . Thus for example , in the United States 19 million people in the United States still have no broadband access . Much like electrical and water utilities , a single provider can create the most efficient outcome for consumers , and when that provider is the state it can guarantee affordable prices and commit to not price-gouging as private firms are wont to do . Broadband should be treated as a utility , and the state has always proven to be the best purveyor of public utilities . Elgan , M. Should Wireless Carriers be Nationalized ? . Huffington Post . 10 October 2012 , Encyclopaedia Britannica . `` Public Utility . '' Encyclopdia Britannica Online Academic Edition . Encyclopdia Britannica Inc. 2013 	It would provide an efficient service for everyone
Advanced infrastructure technology often relies on the existence of broadband technology universally installed across the grid . Countries like South Korea and Japan have succeeded in expanding their power grids by means of smart grids , power-grids that are far more efficient than existing structures in previously leading states like the United States , that make use of the broadband network in the provision of power . The US government has since committed to creating its own new grid , one that would increase efficiency , supply and management , and lower costs of energy provision to its citizens . Such grids depend on the reliable and advanced broadband networks . The incentive for states to employ broadband across their territory is tremendous , beyond mere access to fast internet . This is why private firms will never be sufficient in efficient provision of broadband , because they do not reap all the benefits directly of the smart grid that can arise from its development . The state providing broadband is an essential part of upgrading energy provision for advanced countries in the 21 century . Kass , D. FCC Chairman Wants Ultra High Speed Broadband in 100 Million US Households by 2020 . IT Channel Planet . 18 February 2010 . 	Universal broadband is a necessary prerequisite to developing more efficient and effective power-grids
Information technology is critical to the success of contemporary economies , with even the simplest business ventures . Uneven or non-existent penetration of broadband is a major drag on economic progress . The private sector has been unable to effectively adapt with a holistic approach to the provision of data space and internet speed . The state providing these services would guarantee a high quality of service , and penetration across the country , linking all citizens to the network . For a country to compete internationally it needs broadband , and the surest way to provide it , since the private sector has resolutely failed to do so , and where it does provide services , it tends to overcharge . As the Western world is left behind by the internet speeds of erstwhile developing states like Singapore , which has almost total penetration of high quality , state-sponsored broadband , it needs to refocus on what can reverse the trend . Broadband is one of the steps toward the solution . Elgan , M. Should Wireless Carriers be Nationalized ? . Huffington Post . 10 October 2012 , ibid Kass , D. FCC Chairman Wants Ultra High Speed Broadband in 100 Million US Households by 2020 . IT Channel Planet . 18 February 2010 . 	Broad-based access to broadband is essential for countries to be competitive and to excel
As information technology has come more and more to pervade peoples lives , it has become abundantly clear that a new set of positive rights must be considered . In the forefront of this consideration stands broadband . Broadband allows for far more rapid access to the internet , and thus access to the world of information the internet represents . Today , a citizen of a free society must be able to access the internet if he or she is to be able to fully realise their potential . This is because the ability to access the fundamental rights to freedom of expression and civic and social participation are now contingent upon ready access to the internet . Thus access to the internet has itself become a right of citizens , and their access should be guaranteed by the state . This right has been enshrined by several countries , such as France , Finland , Greece , and Spain , thus leading the way toward a more general recognition of this service as a right in the same way other public services are guaranteed . It is a right derived from the evolution of society in the same fashion that the right to healthcare has grown out of countries social and economic development . Lucchi , N. Access to Network Services and Protection of Constitutional Rights : Recognizing the Essential Role of Internet Access for the Freedom of Expression . Cardozo J. of IntL & Comp . Law , Vol .19 , 2011 , 	The information age demands a right to broadband access
Endangered animals warrant a tougher degree of protection in Africa as they have notable cultural significance . Some groups believe that African elephants have mystic powers attached to them and have coveted them for centuries . African lions have been depicted on the coat of arms for states and institutions both past and present . They are intrinsically linked with Africas past and its identity . The extinction of these animals , therefore , would have a negative cultural impact and should be prevented . University of California , Los Angeles , Elephant : The Animal and its Ivory in African Culture Coleman , Q . The importance of African lions 	Endangered animals are a source of pride for African countries
A stronger , militarised approach is needed as poaching is becoming far more advanced . Poachers now operate with high-calibre rifles , night vision scopes , silencers and use helicopters to hunt their prey . These methods are used particularly against rhinoceroses in South Africa , whose horns have become extremely valuable on the Asian market for their supposed medical properties . In response to this , South African rangers are being given specialised training and use their own aerial surveillance to track poachers down with success , supporting the argument for a militarised response to protect endangered animals . WWF , African rhino poaching crisis Zapwing , The Rhino Poaching Crisis ibid 	Poaching is becoming more advanced
A major failing in current anti-poaching operations is that the poachers are rarely prosecuted . African legal systems rarely prioritise poaching as a serious crime , with offenders usually receiving trivial fines1 . One of the major reasons for the Western black rhinoceros extinction in 2011 was the complete lack of sentencing for any of the poachers who were captured . The system also fails to prosecute the brains behind many of the operations due to poor investigative methods . This creates an impression in the minds of the poachers that they can operate with impunity . Mathur , A . Western Black Rhino Poached Out of Existence ; Declared Extinct , Slack Anti-Poaching Efforts Responsible Welz , A . The War on African Poaching : Is Militarization Fated to Fail ? 	The justice system does not currently work
Stronger protection of animals should be implemented to reduce the funding for terrorist groups . Certain terrorist organisations use the illegal ivory and horn trade as funding for their operations . Al-Shabaab , the Lords Resistance Army -LRB- LRA -RRB- , and the Sudanese Janjaweed all use the illicit trade as a source of income , with the former using the trade for 40 % of its expenditure . This enables them to carry out attacks such as the 2013 Westgate siege in Kenya . Tougher protection of endangered animals would reduce the ability of these groups to fund themselves . In turn , this would decrease their operational capability , increasing stability in Africa . Stewart , C. Illegal ivory trade funds al-shabaabs terrorist attacks Tackett , C . How elephant poaching helped fund Kenya terrorist attack 	Poaching is linked to terrorism
A tougher approach to the protection of animals is needed to prevent their natural habitats from being destroyed by locals . As humans expand their agricultural activity in Africa they are destroying the environments of endangered animals and pushing others towards being endangered . Due to an increase in large scale cotton plantations and food crops , the West African lion has seen a marked decrease in population ; numbering less than 400 in early 2014 . Tougher protection , such as fencing off areas from human activity , has been suggested and has seen success in South Africa . BBC , Lions facing extinction in West Africa Morelle , R. Fencing off wild lions from humans could save them 	Natural habitats being are destroyed
The ICC can only investigate situations that are referred to it by either the host country , or the Security Council . A power also exists for the prosecutor to seek investigation , though this has as yet only been used twice . As such , most atrocities that occur across the world are shielded from prosecution because such a prosecution would be against the interests of a member Security Council . Leaders do not seem to be brought for investigation until they offend the west ; Charles Taylor was not prosecuted until he had a falling out with the USA , despite their soft support for him in overthrowing the Doe regime . Another case in point is Uganda where the Lords Resistance Army has been charged , but not the Pro-US government forces , despite evidence existing they have also committed crimes . It is clear then that the ICC makes decisions by broad external factors , which biases it against Africa which does not have any countries on the UNSC or any patrons sitting on the council . 	ICC is controlled by the Security Council
Water would ideally be a universally accessible and affordable substance , but governments can not necessarily be trusted to provide water to all of their citizens . 90 % of water is publicly provided , yet 1 billion people do n't have water . Clearly this is n't working . Some governments are negligent , and there needs to be a solution to give citizens access to clean water without government provision . This problem has only been exacerbated by the shrinking budgets of most countries due to the economic crisis of 2009 . Current regimes in developing countries often provide a state subsidy to the rich , with water provided to middle-class areas and wealthy farmers at a fraction of its true cost , while poorer areas have no supply at all . Many governments are unfair to the poor , but private providers have no reason to pick favorites . The poor are already paying for their water , either directly to entrepreneurs who carry it in tubs and cans up to the shanty towns , or with their time as they spend a large proportion of the family 's labor fetching poor quality water from miles away . Water privatization will charge for water , however it will be more fair to the poor and provide them with more options to accessing water that the government is not providing . It is difficult to force governments to improve water access , but companies and Public-Private Partnerships -LRB- where private companies pay for most of the infrastructure , but partner with public entities -RRB- can be used to achieve this goal . 	Privatization usurps corrupt , unfair governments .
Water is a resource subject to supply and demand , and so should be treated as an economic good . It may fall freely from the skies , but it has to be collected , managed , processed and supplied through an expensive system of reservoirs , channels , processing plants and pipes . Dirty water and human waste also have to be removed and treated in sanitation systems . We pay for food , and shelter , which are both necessary for life , so it is perfectly morally acceptable to pay for water . Problems of water supply need to be addressed with huge investment , particularly in the developing world where many people have no access to decent fresh water . Even in the developed world , much water -LRB- up to 50 % in Canada -RRB- is wasted through leaks in pipes and ageing infrastructure . The public sector has failed to provide the money for this investment so private involvement is essential . For this investment to be attractive to the private sector , water companies must be allowed to make a profit through realistic water charges that reflect the costs of supply . Issues of quality , equity and environmental standards can be handled through effective regulation . 	Water should be treated as an economic resource .
History is not objective and , in schools , historical fact is at the mercy of those in control of the curriculum . Even when there is no attempt to deceive or manipulate , postmodernist critiques of history suggest all history teaching will reflect the preconceptions and aims of those who set and teach the curriculum . The British government announced in early 2006 that history taught in schools should seek to engender a sense of `` Britishness '' by stressing a shared political and cultural heritage . The Education Secretary at the time asked schools to ` play a leading role in creating community cohesion ' by doing so . Even if no historical events are invented as such , this will nevertheless lead to an unbalanced account , in which events that support modern political/social ends are highlighted and others receive less attention . The principle that such tainted information , whether implicit or explicit , can be taught to children is dangerous . 	History teaching will reflect the erroneous preconceptions and aims of those who set the curriculum
History taught in schools sometimes involves flagrant distortion of historical evidence either by the State or by individual teachers . Attempts may be made to avoid nasty aspects of a nation 's past -LRB- e.g . the massacre of Chinese civilians by Japanese soldiers at Nanking in 1937 -RRB- and/or to put down other peoples -LRB- e.g . the presentation of Australian Aboriginals as uncivilized until the 1960s -RRB- . Japan 's attempt to erase the memory of Nanking in its schoolchildren began in 1950s when it banned a third of all textbooks and ` Nanking Massacre simply disappeared ' from their history . As well as these extreme examples , low-level anti-Americanism is arguably pervasive in modern French school textbooks , reflecting tensions between France and the USA arising from the latter 's Gaullist heritage and the recent `` War on Terror '' . It is highly undesirable for school pupils to be exposed to misinformation peddled in History classes , which can lead to violence , hatred or discrimination . 	History lessons can be used as state-sponsored propaganda , distorting the events of the past
Even if no agenda is being consciously or subconsciously pursued , school pupils are presented with oversimplified information in History . This is a result of the limited time available , the limited intellectual capacity of pupils , the limited knowledge of many teachers -LRB- who may not be history specialists , especially in primary schools -RRB- and the desire for answers that can be labelled as `` correct '' or `` incorrect '' in examinations . Much school history teaching is therefore concerned simply with memorising `` facts '' . However , such learning needs to be accompanied by a deeper understanding of events , lacking definitive answers but providing a narrative to give the ` facts ' -LRB- often figures -RRB- meaning . As schools recognize this is beyond most students , they struggle to make time spent in history lessons conducive ; a study in America found that only 20 percent of fourth graders were proficient in history , while that dropped to 12 per cent for high school seniors . 	History should be left for those intellectual capable of understanding its limitations , and therefore not taught at school
Couples who have made the decision to adopt a child should not be restricted in their choice to their country of residence . It may be in the state 's interest to reduce the number of children in their own institutions , however there is no reason citizens should be straddled with this obligation . We do not prevent our adults from marrying foreign nationals and granting them citizenship ; why would we do so for children ? Furthermore , if the conditions of the couples ' state 's institutions are fairly good , they have a strong altruistic motive to adopt from a nation which does not fund its own institutions similarly . Unwanted or orphaned children living in squalid conditions in the developing world should be the priority for couples seeking to adopt , not those living in the local orphanage who , whilst hoping for a permanent home , will not starve . International adoption therefore would provide a small but tangible means of reducing the infant mortality of many of these struggling states . 	Couples looking to adopt should not be prevented from looking overseas
Many parents who desperately want children do not fit the socio-economic requirements to adopt in their own country . Western adoption laws are very difficult to pass through ; even though anyone fertile can have naturally born children . Those looking to adopt have to face stringent scrutiny . For example those making less than or equal to 20,000 U.S.D annually have difficulty adopting as they qualify as living below poverty level in the U.S whereas in third/fourth-world countries that same amount qualifies as a decent income . Furthermore , mothers allowing others to adopt their child are far more likely to pick young couples than older couples who have outlasted their body clock in the search for a child . Therefore , whilst your local government would argue you have insufficient resources to adopt , you are still able to provide for a child a more comfortable environment than that of an orphanage in his home country . Jacobson , C. , Ethnicity . Contemporary Sociology , 2009 , pp.425-426 . 	International adoption laws are looser than domestic requirements
Humanitarian crises that lead to a surplus of unwanted or orphaned children can create a groundswell of sympathy which drives parents to wish to adopt internationally . In China , where the one-child policy created unprecedented numbers of girls to adopt , 14,500 were adopted in 2005 . However , this number paled in comparison to the clients who were waiting in line hoping to provide a home in an environment where girls were not valued less than their male counterparts . Furthermore , the effects of wartime also act as instigators for international attention , driving adoption to offset the barbarous effects of the conflict itself . As a report into the adoption of Korean children notes , ` orphans of the Korean and Vietnam war , especially children fathered by American soldiers , were given special humanitarian attention ' . Without international adoption , the likelihood of such children escaping a life in an institution is remote . Kim , W. J . International Adoption : A case review of Korean children . Child Psychiatry and Human Development , 1995 , p. 141 . 	International adoption may encourage parents who otherwise would not seek to adopt
International adoption provides orphans , often living in decrepit , under-funded and unhygienic environments , a loving home in a developed society . Child welfare experts appreciate that keeping infants in institutional care for extended periods of time puts them at risk of lifelong damage . Adopting parents are proven to be both financially and emotionally capable of both adopting and raising the child , ensuring that the emotional heartache of growing up in an orphanage is replaced by the stability of a home environment . This is advantageous , for obvious reasons , for both child and parent , whilst the state from which the child is adopted is relieved of the financial pressure of supporting the orphans and the mother of the orphan can reassure herself that her child is being well looked-after . As a Korean government official notes regarding the high adoption rate of Korean children in the United States , ` in the beginning , the only reason foreign adoptions were allowed was that it was so difficult to raise children after the Korean War ' . In times of both financial austerity and societal breakdown , international adoption is a welcome relief , most of all to the unwanted children provided with a loving home and parental attention . Bartholet , E. International Adoption : The Human Rights Position . Global Policy , 2010 , p91 	International adoption reduces the amount of unwanted children in institutional care
States are often seen as having one single unitary interest , however this is not the case the interests of different regions can be very different . It should therefore not be surprising that Scotland and rUK have different interests with relation to the EU . For example on climate change Scotland has the greatest potential for the generation of renewable energy in Europe with 25 % of Europes tidal potential and 10 % of wave potential yet the UK is in favour of scrapping European targets for the generation of renewable energy . UK ministers have also been accused of working against Scotland on agriculture being willing to accept reductions in farm support meaning that Scotland receives the lowest level in Europe . Scotlands own interests would therefore be better represented by having its own government at the negotiating table than a UK government . Energy in Scotland : Get the facts , , 10 July 2013 , Harvey , Fiona , Britain resists EU bid to set new target on renewable energy , , 25 May 2013 , McLaughlin , Mark , SNP Conference : UK ministers working against Scotland , , 19 October 2013 , 	Scotland has different interests to rUK
The Scottish National Party -LRB- SNP -RRB- has said that they would not hold an EU referendum in an independent Scotland . Scotland is Interestingly should Scotland become independent and accede to the EU there would have to be a treaty change to provide for Scottish representation in EU institutions . This could well trigger an EU referendum in the remainder of the UK -LRB- rUK -RRB- under the ` referendum lock ' . Sturgeon , Nicola , Scotlands Relationship with Europe , , 26 February 2013 , http : //www.scotland.gov.uk/News/Speeches/scot-europe-sturgon-26022013 9 Avery , Graham , HC 643 The foreign policy implications of and for a separate Scotland , , 24 September 2012 , point 6 . 	An independent Scotland would avoid having a referendum on EU membership
According to a February 2013 Ipsos-mori poll Scots want an EU referendum but 53 % would vote to stay in the EU and only 34 % would vote to leave . Indeed if Scotland became independent those who wanted it to be in the EU rose to 61 % and the number who wanted out fell to 33 % . In England 48 % would vote to leave -LRB- as of November 2012 -RRB- and 44 % would vote to stay in . The UK Independence Party whose principal policy platform is a desire to leave the EU has performed considerably worse in Scotland than in England . In the 2010 general election UKIP received 3.1 % of the vote whereas in the Scottish election the next year they only received 0.9 % of the vote . Similarly in the 2009 European Parliament elections UKIP came second nationally receiving almost 2.5 million votes , 16.5 % of all votes cast but in Scotland it came 6 , beaten by all four main parties and the Greens receiving only 5.2 % of the vote . Scots clearly believe their interests lie with Europe and it would be better for Scotland not to be tied to a country where sentiment is considerably more negative towards the EU . McLean , Christopher , Scots want EU referendum but would vote to stay in , , 14 February 2013 , Social Research Institute , British public split on our future with the European Union , , 15 November 2012 , BBC News , National Results , , BBC News , Scotland elections , , BBC News , European Election 2009 : UK Results , , BBC News , European Election 2009 : Scotland , , 	Scotland is more pro-EU than the rest of the UK
The criminalisation of S & M removes legal protection from individuals who suffer an abuse of consent while submitting to sadistic practices . Where a dominant partner ignores safe words or pushes a session too far , the criminal status of S & M may lead to a victim being prosecuted alongside a perpetrator . Alternately , victims may be disincentivised from approaching the police altogether . Although it is not possible to be prosecuted for being the victim of a crime , individuals who are harmed during sadomasochistic sex many not be able to engage in a rational assessment of their own criminal liability . Even though laws against sadomasochistic acts pin liability only on the sadistic partner , they also serve to criminalize the act itself . Victims of abuses of consent may therefore become wary of informing the police that they have participated in such activity , for fear that they will be publicly stigmatized or subjected to police investigation themselves . The only time S & M can be problematic is when someone does not listen to their partner when they withdraw their consent and ask for the session to end . Individuals will not stop engaging in S & M simply because the state says so , but victims of over-aggressive partners will lose recourse or protection under the law if they try to approach the police about such an incident . Where an S & M session goes awry , victims of an abuse of consent will have to admit to engaging in a criminal act . In the same way prostitutes have no real protection from assault and rape due to the criminality of their acts , victims of assault and rape in S & M are no longer protected . The opposition may attempt to claim that there will be a clear distinction between a sadistic criminal and a submissive victim whenever a complaint is raised . This is not true . Many sadomasochistic relationships are based around fluctuating and interchangeable roles . Both partners may engage in sadistic acts at different times . 	Decriminalisation will protect practitioners of sadomasochism
Control of ones own body is the most fundamental of human rights . No government should be permitted to define how its citizens can express themselves . The distinction between the permissible and the impermissible should be drawn at the line of consent . This is not a novel distinction . Your property can not be stolen from you if you agree to give it away . You have no legal remedy if your property is damaged by another with your consent , or if you damage it yourself . Why should there be a moral difference when this property is flesh and blood ? Paternalism in this instance only protects those who do not want to be protected . The prohibition of sadomasochism is simply inconsistent with the liberty that governments already permit their citizens to exercise to injure each other and themselves . When people are entitled to risk pain , serious injury , or even death in sporting activity , why should they not also be permitted to suffer some discomfort in consensual sexual activity ? The same piercing of flesh which attracts criminal liability in a fetishistic context can be performed legally in a chemists shop or tattooists parlor . The distinction between the rugby scrum , the bungee tower and the bedroom is an arbitrary one . Some of the pleasure that is inherent in contact sports is derived from the adrenal thrill of flirting with injury . It is widely known that a significant proportion of individuals find jeopardy and danger as enjoyable as decadence . A sport purged of all risk would be unwatched and unplayed . Comparably , a corpus of law that did not acknowledge or protect the diversity of human sexual experience would needlessly limit individual sexual freedom , and would probably be ignored . 	The criminalisation of sadomasochism infringes on individual liberty
The idealization of physical beauty within American and European culture has created a demand for increasingly interventionist forms of cosmetic enhancement . Women and men are prepared to pay hundreds of thousands of pounds to have their faces , breasts and genitals maimed and modified by surgeons , to have their skin bleached or their facial muscles temporarily paralyzed by beauticians and to be badgered , bullied and blackmailed into complying with restrictive diets and extensive regimes of physical exertion by domineering personal trainers . Except in the most extreme and obvious cases of emotional or psychological disturbance , adults are automatically assumed to be capable of consenting to these acts . Further , the western ideal of physical beauty is closely associated with the cultural norms that influence and control sexual attraction , compatibility and enjoyment . The erotic is almost inextricably linked with the aesthetically idealized . The intense pain and extensive physical injuries that individuals endure in the pursuit of physical beauty are also endured in the pursuit of sexual gratification . The risks inherent in invasive cosmetic treatments are poorly explained . The expense of these products and services and the pervasiveness of idealized physical forms combine to create parallel markets comprising cheaper , poorly regulated forms of beauty enhancement , including intensive tanning and skin bleaching lotions . The ultimate objective of these physically painful and dangerous activities is sexual pleasure . Even if the heightening of sexual pleasure that results from physical modification is less direct than in a sadomasochistic encounter , many cosmetic surgery patients find the aesthetic pleasure attendant on successful surgery to be satisfying too . It seems hypocritical and perverse for a supposedly liberal system of law to allow individuals who are openly pursuing a sexual objective to consent to the harms and risks of cosmetic surgery , while limiting the legality of sadomasochistic acts . Both activities have the same underlying purpose , and both produce dangerous externalities . Rational , consenting adults should have as much freedom to engage in S & M play as they currently have to submit to cosmetic surgery . 	Western ideals of beauty already permit individual to endure intense physical pain in order to achieve sexual gratification
It is sufficient for the decriminalization of sadomasochism that each participant is aware of the hazards inherent in the fetishes they will be exploring and consents to them . No law prohibits people from refusing to wear a condom during sexual intercourse , notwithstanding the peril of infection . Furthermore , all cases where an individual withdraws their consent for the activity can be arbitrated and prosecuted like every other situation of consensual sex where an individual withdraws consent and their partner does not respect that wish . The police and courts will investigate it in the same way and will prosecute those who commit rape under the guise of S & M just as they prosecute those who commit rape under the guise of consensual intercourse . 	Sadomasochistic practices should be legal between informed , consenting adults .
Those who advocate prison sentences for non-violent offenders often state two points : first , that the idea of being sent to prison is thought to act as a deterrent , and prevent people from committing crimes ; second , that people have commit crimes and go to prison are less likely to re-offend . This is false on both counts . The idea of prison as a deterrent is immediately disproved by a rising violent crime rate , and the argument that these prisoners will not re-offend is disproved by the high rate of re-offending after a prison sentence , reaching up to 70 % for some prisons . Moreover , re-offending statistics are normally only based on crimes committed within a year of release ; there may be many , many more ex-prisoners who re-offend who are not recorded within these statistics . Crimes which are committed impulsively and without forethought are rarely deterred by the possibility of punishment or being caught . However , non-custodial methods , such as electronic tagging , have shown promise in reducing recidivism rates . Where prison has failed in deterring crimes , alternative forms of punishment have an opportunity to deter initial crime and lower rates of recidivism . 	Prison is not necessarily a deterrent
Merely having a criminal record which states that an individual was imprisoned , rather than given a more productive sentence such as community service , can have enormous implications on that individuals future employment opportunities . This is particularly pertinent if it is a first offence , committed in a moment of stupidity . Prisons are an isolating factor which separates the offender from their friends and family and distances them even further from the rest of society . This creates a cycle of crime where the offenders closest acquaintances are those who they met in prison , rather than a supportive network of family and friends who can help this person to be reintegrated into society . Not only does prison allow prisoners to share criminal ideas , but it may also reciprocally validate their illegal actions by creating a sense of camaraderie . This makes rehabilitation , and recognition of societys moral values , much more difficult . Ultimately , using prison for non-violent offences only introduces the offenders to more serious crimes , and makes it more difficult for the offenders themselves to be reintegrated , and for wider society to reintegrate them . 	Prison sentences are damaging for minor offenders
Sentencers have a wide array of options in their sentencing , and indeed the sentencing council states that sentencing should never be a rigid , mechanistic or scientific process . They have the option to make sentences more proportional to the crimes committed , and it is logical that the more serious crimes should receive the most serious sentences in this case , imprisonment . Other options for sentencing could include fines , unpaid work , rehabilitation programmes , alcohol or drug treatments , curfews and supervision requirements . One key aim of sentencing is to convey moral censure , and to encourage offenders to truly consider the implications of their actions . However , offenders who feel that they have been punished too severely or treated unfairly , or that those who have committed worse crimes receive the same sentence , are less likely to respond to that moral message and benefit from it . This subsequently damages a key pillar of the criminal justice system the idea of rehabilitation . Criminals who see themselves as unfairly treated by society have no reason not to strike out against society again by committing another crime . Not only would alternative forms of punishment prevent this from happening , but it does not require the availability of prison and so is less of a burden on resources . Heavier fines , longer community sentences and more strict curfews can easily be given as an appropriate sentence for non-violent offenders . 	Non-violent offenders can be adequately punished in other ways
It is practically unfeasible for the government to continue imprisoning people at this rate when prisons are already over capacity . Sooner or later , we will have to accept that there is too great a burden on our prison facilities for this kind of sentencing to continue being used in so many cases . As such , we should give priority to imprisoning criminals who are genuinely dangerous and who have proved their violent tendencies already . These kinds of offences are the most traumatic for victims and we owe it to them to make sure that these criminals are physically distanced from the rest of society . However , while non-violent offenders have also committed a crime , they do not pose the same kind of danger which requires that they must be locked up ; in fact , those who commit small-scale crimes against society could be better rehabilitated by being forced to work to improve society through things like community service they will be less likely to damage a society which they feel a part of and have helped to build . When people hold a greater stake in their community , they value it more and are reluctant to damage it . 	Prisons should be reserved for those who are truly dangerous to society
This argument comes from the idea , that a body is the property of its owner , as well as a fertilized egg is the property of the couple that created it whom also have parental rights Some proponents of genetic screening might go as far to create the distinction between an embryo and a child : considering an embryo not to be a living being , but rather just a mass of cells , makes it possible to avoid entirely considering the `` screening '' process as a selection process between living human beings . Rather , it could be interpreted merely as a selection between different organizations of cells that have differing potential to become healthy `` life '' . Currently we allow couples to choose not to have children due to their own genetic deformations . We allow them to tie their tubes , get sterilized due to their own decision not to have children with genetic defects or children at all . Experts suggest , that due to the sanctity of parental rights , the principle decision making should be in the hands of the parents , also regarding the power over the future of their DNA . With this , the society respects the principal decision making right of the individual to control their family and the destiny of their offspring -LRB- 1 -RRB- . Mainly making it a next step in deciding what their course of action regarding children will be . 1 Renee C. Esfandiary , The Changing World of Genetics and Abortion : Why the Women 's Movement Should Advocate for Limitations on the Right to Choose in the Area of Genetic Technology William and Mary Journal of Women and the Law , published 1998 , , accessed 05/23/2011 	Parents have a right to acquire and act upon medical information
Some of the genetic diseases tested include great suffering for the individual , one of them is the Tay Sachs syndrome . Where nerve cells become fatty from reoccurring infections . -LRB- 1 -RRB- This is a disease , where even with the best of care ; a child dies at the age of 4 . Another is also Down Syndrome , where half of the sufferers have heart defects , increased risks of types of leukemia and high risks of dementia . Physical and mental limitations are also a feature of such a defect which causes many children to die early . -LRB- 2 -RRB- . So it is the duty of any society to prevent such sufferings for both child and parents at any cost or method . A similar view is shared among the Jewish community , who has problems with a high prevalence of Tay Sachs syndrome . They believe that due to the psychological and physical repercussions of the birth of a child with the genetic disorder it is better to screen and choose a healthy embryo -LRB- or abort the present pregnancy -RRB- . -LRB- 3 -RRB- So because such diseases cause great distress for the involved parties and we could prevent it , it is morally right for society to engage in genetic screening . 1 . National institute for Neurological Disorders and Stroke , , accessed 05/24/2011 2 . Medline Plus 10/18/2010 , , accessed 05/24/2011 3 . Daniel Eisenberg , A Jewish perspective on issues related to screening Tay-Sachs disease , , accessed 05/24/2011 	Liberal societies have a duty to minimise avoidable suffering that might affect their members
We have a duty to the child to give it the best possible start in life , and if the technology is available to determine whether a baby is brought into the world with or without a genetic neurological disease such as Huntingtons , cystic fibrosis or sickle cell anemia , we should exercise that right . A child that has Cystic Fibrosis -LRB- CF -RRB- produces too much fluid and mucus in the lungs , pancreas and passage ways , which then become thick , sticky and hard to move . This means that germs get stuck in the mucus and the child suffers from a lot of infectious diseases . Thus lead to reduced life expectancies -LRB- 1 -RRB- . For the gene detectable blood disease Thalassemia in its moderate and severe forms children may need very frequent blood transfusions , which over time lead to damage of heart , liver or other organs . Or may need stem cell transplants -LRB- bone marrow transplants -RRB- in order to get these transplants children will usually need to undergo radiation and need to have the luck of a well matched donor -LRB- 2 -RRB- . Congenital malformations , deformations , chromosomal abnormalities are the leading causes of 20 % of infant deaths in the US . More than 6,000 single-gene disorders - which occur in about 1 out of every 200 births - such as cystic fibrosis , hemochromatosis or sickle cell anemia . Dr. Gregor Wolbring -LRB- University of Alberta in Canada -RRB- sees embryo selection as `` a tool for fixing disabilities , impairments , diseases and defects '' -LRB- 3 -RRB- . If we have ways to prevent children from such suffering and can manipulate only with those genes so that they do not have to suffer , we should do so . 1 . KidsHealth , , accessed 05/21/2011 2 . Mayo Clinic , , 05/21/2011 3 . MedicineNet.com , accessed 05/23/2011 	Genetic testing ensures the best quality of life for children vulnerable to heritable diseases
Religious symbols , such as the veil divide society . When some Muslim women wear the veil , it creates pressure on others to do so as well . Pressure comes from wanting to fit in , and pressure from other people in the community seeing those who dont wear the veil as being somehow less religious . Allowing it in schools makes it more visible to non-Muslims , making them more likely to perceive it as a core part of the faith . It then gives the impression to outsiders that Islam is more extreme than it really is . 	It causes division within society
As a face covering is very obvious , it would be a school to check to see if someone is wearing one . France and Turkey already have attempted such bans on headscarves , which do not cover the face . This could be enforced by teachers , not police . BBC News , French scarf ban comes into force , 2 September 2004 , Rainsford , Sarah , Turkey divided over headscarf ban , , 11 February 2008 , 	A ban would be easy to enforce
Like in society as a whole , religious symbols are divisive . It marks some out as different from the others , which could cause bullying . They may also be impractical for PE , technology or science lessons where they get in the way . Face veils also mean that peoples lips can not be seen when they are speaking , which can cause problems with communication -LRB- especially with any D/deaf people who lip read -RRB- . For this reason , a UK court considered it reasonable for a school to not permit a teacher to teach while wearing a face veil . BBC News , School sacks woman after veil row , 24 November 2006 , . See court case listed higher up for full legal decision -LRB- resource for teachers -RRB- . 	It causes problems in schools
Face coverings in particular divide men and women . Face veil is seen by some as a symbol of the oppression of women , because in some countries it is mandatory , as was the case in Afghanistan under the Taliban . When worn in Europe , with equality and democracy , it can be seen as a rejection of such oppression this is why Belgium banned it . Islamic dress rules are often stricter for women than men . BBC News , Belgian ban on full veils comes into force , 23 July 2011 , 	The veil is a symbol of oppression on women
Migrants can bring the benefit of their industriousness to developing countries . When there are crises it is the middle professional classes who are most likely to migrate as they have the resources and knowledge with which to do so . When it comes to economic migrants it is often the educated youth who are looking for better work opportunities ; skilled workers make up 33 % of migrants from developing countries despite being only 6 % of the population . Developed countries already have a highly educated and skilled population , and will take in those migrants with skills they need . Developing countries on the other hand have a much less well educated population so derive more benefit from the influx of skilled workers to help them develop thus counteracting the brain drain . Docquier , Frdric , Lohest , Olivier , and Marfouk , Abdeslam . Brain Drain in Developing Countries , The World Bank Economic Review . Vol . 21 , No . 2 , pp . 193218 , p. 198 	Migrants can benefit developing countries
Migrants in developed countries are often not very well treated , for example the Traiskirchen migrant camp in Austria , one of the richest countries in the EU was condemned for its inhumane conditions by Amnesty in August 2015 . The aid provided can be earmarked to ensure that migrants being well treated and provided for through safe transportation and access to essential government services such as healthcare and welfare . The advantage of this provision in developing rather than developed countries is cost . The same amount of money goes a lot further in a developing country . This provision therefore makes sense in a time were many developed countries are both struggling with greater numbers of migrants and with austerity . Greece , which has had 124,000 migrants arrive in the first seven months of 2015 , a 750 % rise over the same period in 2014 , is a notable case . ` No respect ' for human rights at Traiskirchen camp , 14 August 2015 , Spindler , William , Number of refugees and migrants arriving in Greece soars 750 per cent over 2014 , , 7 August 2015 , 	Aid can ensure better treatment of migrants
It is an accident of geography , or history , simple bad luck that has resulted in some countries getting large numbers of immigrants while many others get none . The first developed country on migrant routes get large numbers as those wishing to seek asylum have to apply in the first safe country . Similarly those countries next to conflict zones , or places affected by natural disasters , get very large influxes of migrants who hope to return home as soon as possible ; there are more than 1.1 million refugees from Syria in Lebanon a country of less than 6million . It is right that there should be a mechanism to help even out the burden of migrants and that rich developed countries should be those who pay that cost . Syria Regional Refugee Response , , , accessed 19 August 2015 	It is just to redistribute migrants
Some cultures place great importance on having at least one child of a particular gender . We can help realise this aim . We can prevent the trauma and stress of not having a child of a particular gender , which can have negative cultural connotations . If a state 's population became seriously imbalanced , one might have to rethink : but given that most countries , including all in the West , have balanced populations , and given that many families in most countries will choose to have roughly as many of the other sex , this should not stop this proposal being put into effect in many countries . Even in China , the problem is largely due to the `` one-child '' policy which has been relaxed in many areas since the mid-1990s . Over time , a scarcity of one gender will in any case produce new pressures to rebalance the population , for example the paying of dowries may change , and women will achieve higher status . 	Gender selection will prevent incidents of infanticide
Gender selection technology should be available , at whatever cost the market dictates , to those who can afford the process and wish to choose the sex of their children . There should be no other restrictions on the couples wishing to go through with the process , other than an assurance that the mother is physically able and willing . As it is not an essential procedure , the state should not be expected to subsidize either the process or the development of the technology . Nevertheless , the private sector should be encouraged to develop the technology and continue to provide the public with a path to maximise their own happiness . 	The private sector can provide parents , who can afford to and want to , with gender selection technologies
People should have freedom of choice . Why shouldnt would-be parents be able to do this , given that no harm is done to others by their decision ? Article 16 -LRB- 1 -RRB- of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that : `` Men and women of full age have the right to marry and to found a family '' and this right should be understood to cover the right to make decisions over how that family should be formed . When a family have a large number of boys or girls , why should they be deprived of the opportunity to have a child of a different gender if the technology exists ? As the Director of the Fertility Institute notes , these are grown-up people expressing their reproductive choices -LRB- they -RRB- are really happy when they get what they want . 1 . U.N. General Assembly . -LRB- 1948 , December 10 -RRB- . Retrieved May 20 , 2011 , from United Nations : > 2 . Stein , R. -LRB- 2004 , December 14 -RRB- . Retrieved May 20 , 2011 , from The Washington Post : 	Parents should have freedom of choice
Some parents are carriers of known sex-specific diseases . It is obviously in the child 's interests that they do n't have such a condition . Determining its gender can ensure that . Many families have predispositions towards certain common conditions that are more likely in one gender in another , and these can be avoided too . Nearly all neurodevelopmental diseases are either more common in one gender or more severe among one gender . Arthritis , heart disease and even lung cancer also seem to be influenced by a person 's gender . Males disproportionately suffer from X chromosome problems because their body has no copy to fall back on These range in nature from baldness and colour blindness to muscular dystrophy and haemophilia . Women are disproportionately affected by diseases of the immune system . Genetic modification is not the only technology available . The MicroSort technique uses a ` sperm-sifting ' machine to detect the minute difference between y and double x chromosome-carrying sperm : no genetic harm results from its use . Over 1200 babies have been born using the technology 1 . Macnair , D. T. -LRB- 2010 , August -RRB- . Fragile X Syndrome . Retrieved May 20 , 2011 , from BBC Health : 2 . Doe , J . -LRB- 2000 , December 18 -RRB- . Immune System Disorders . Retrieved May 20 , 2011 , from Time : 3 . Genetics and IVF Institute . -LRB- 2008 , January 1 -RRB- . Microsort . Retrieved May 20 , 2011 , from Genetics and IVF Institute : 	Sex-specific , generic diseases can be avoided
Power is highly intoxicating ; it can corrupt even the most scrupled individual given enough exposure over time . For this reason , power should not be left in the hands of specific individuals for too long . When a politician is firmly entrenched , he may seek to enrich himself at the expense of the public . He may seek to shower benefices on family and allies in order to maintain and strengthen his powerful position . Without term limits legislators often become self-serving individuals , more interested in craving out personal power bases than with serving the people who elected them . Because legislators are so likely to be reelected , lobbyists and special interest groups find the lines of power in states ' capitals largely predictable , and are thus able to buy the influence of the permanent power nexuses in the legislature with relative ease . Term limits serve to limit the ability of individuals to put forward self-serving legislation and to retain power indefinitely . Instead , by maintaining term limits , legislators have only a limited time in power , which tends to shift their focus toward genuinely benefiting the public . 	The longer a politician remains in office , the more entrenched his grip becomes , and the more likely he is to use his office to his personal advantage :
Incumbency provides a huge election advantage . Politicians almost always win reelection . The frequency with which they win varies over time and between states , but incumbency is always a powerful advantage . This is seen most visibly in the United States Congress of the past 30 years , in which it has become virtually impossible to unseat an incumbent legislator . Legislators are reelected because they have better name recognition both with the electorate and with lobby groups . People have a tendency to vote for whom they recognize , and firms tend to support past winners who will likely continue to benefit their interests . Term limits actually increase voter choice by making elections more competitive and encouraging more candidates to run . In areas where term limits have been instituted there is far higher turnover amongst legislators , giving voters far more choice in who should represent them . In California , the institution of term limits on state legislators caused a rush of retirements , which led to 50 percent more candidates than would otherwise have been expected , as well as a marked increase in the diversity of the backgrounds of those elected . Ultimately , old legislators using election machines to retain power do their country and constituents a disservice . Power is best used when it changes hands over time in order to allow for dynamic new solutions to be mooted in a changing world . 	Term limits create more competitive elections for public office that empower new leaders and ideas :
A major focus of a legislator hoping to serve another term is on the next election and on vote getting . It is often the case that hard decisions need to be made by legislators , but it is difficult for them to do so when they are fixated on being reelected . Legislators have an incentive to put tough decisions off if they can retain power by doing so . An example of such seemingly perpetual procrastination is observable in the United States Congress 's attitude toward social security . The fund is set to become insolvent , by some estimates , in less than two decades , yet congressmen and senators have chosen time and again to put off enacting painful , but necessary reform to the system . They find it easier to delay a decision until the next Congress , preferring their own reelection to the good of the nation . When constrained by term limits , legislators must make the most of their limited time in office , resulting in greater prioritization of difficult decisions and reform . Furthermore , the need to constantly fight elections places politicians in the pocket of lobby-groups and election supporters to a greater degree , as they will always need to go back to them for support , and thus can not make decisions that are in the national interest alone . While there will always be some of this behavior , it is curtailed by term limits , as legislators will , in their final term at the very least , not be beholden to as many special interests as they can not run again . Bolder legislative action is observed from retiring legislators in the United States Congress , for example . When a congressman or senator does not intend to seek reelection , his tendency to vote along strict party lines diminishes substantially . Term limits , just like voluntary retirement , leads legislators to vote more on the basis of principle than on party stance . The result of this is a more independent legislature , with a greater interest in actually serving the people . 	The need to constantly fight elections compromises a politician 's ability to make the difficult and unpopular decisions that may be needed at a given time :
It is gravely unfortunate that politics has become an accepted career path for citizens of democratic states . It is far better that participation in government be brief . To end politics as a lifetime sinecure , thereby making legislative service a leave of absence , rather than a means of permanently absconding from a productive career in the private sector , requires that there be term limits . Without term limits , the temptation to remain in office for life will keep people seeking reelection long after they have accomplished all the legislative good of which they are capable . It does not take long for legislators to become more occupied with their relationships with each other and with lobbyists , than with their constituents . Representative assemblies work best when they function as citizen legislatures , in which people who pursue careers other than politics enter the legislative forum for a brief time to do their country service , and then leave again to reenter society as private citizens . Such citizen legislators who enter politics to make their mark and then leave are far more desirable than the career politicians of today who focus only on building their own power influence , rather than considering the people they were elected to represent . US states with ` citizen legislatures ' , where the state legislature is part time with short sessions so allowing its members to hold other jobs , were at the top of freedom indexes . New Hampshire was both the most minimal parliament and the state with most fiscal freedom according to the Ruger-Sorens Index . Will , George . 1993 . Restoration : Congress , Term Limits , and the Restoration of Deliberative Democracy . New York : Free Press . 	Term limits restore a concept of rotation in public office , and reestablish the concept of the citizen legislature :
The presence of American military personnel is particularly onerous in light of the multitude of crimes committed by soldiers over the years ; since the 1950s , more than 200,000 accidents and crimes have been committed , and more than 1000 Japanese civilians have been killed , and a number of others have been the victims of assault and rape . Most of the soldiers who commit these crimes never see justice since American soldiers stationed in Japan enjoy partial extraterritorial status , granting them a degree of immunity from prosecution by Japanese authorities . For all of these reasons , the Japanese people have resoundingly stated their desire for the United States to withdraw its forces and close its bases on their soil . This is demonstrated in every opinion poll and is reflected in the fact that current ruling party in the Japanese parliament , the Democratic Party of Japan was elected partly on the basis of its promise to remove the bases . Without reason to be there , and unwanted by the people , the United States should remove its forces from Japan . 	The Japanese people do not want the bases on their soil .
Every state has a right to shape its own destiny and that of its people . It must therefore have control over its defense policy , which necessarily shape its interactions with other states . The Japanese constitution contains a clause , forced into it by the American occupiers , denying Japan the power to develop a military of its own . The ironic thing is that the United States military now claims to be doing Japan a favor by retaining its bases , claiming that because they have no military they can not defend themselves . With the United States military gone , Japan will be able to begin reconsidering its defense policy and to shape it in the image it sees as befitting itself , not how the United States envisions it . The presence of American troops in lieu of a Japanese military hampers Japan 's ability to shape a defense policy on its own terms , instead having to defer to the United States , whose interest might or might not coincide with Japan 's . In any event , the Japan Self-Defense Forces are well suited to the task of defending Japan , as it is the sixth largest defense organization by expenditure in the world . It is not in any real danger of being overwhelmed by aggressors in the absence of American protection . In order to fully take its place on the world stage and to become a full member of the community of free nations , Japan must be able to direct its own defense and foreign policies . This can only truly happen once the United States withdraws its forces from Japan . 	Japan , as an independent nation-state , should have the ability to shape its own military policy .
Japan is a nation with a now-ingrained democratic tradition and a strong liberal economic system , which makes it the perfect actor to engage politically with states in East Asia on behalf of the international community , as well as to serve as an example of the benefits of liberal democratic values to a society . Japan can serve as an exemplar to its neighbors still laboring under tyrannical regimes , such as North Korea and Burma -LRB- Myanmar -RRB- and to help promote an organic progression to democracy in the region . All of these activities are hampered , however , by the presence of American military bases in Japan . When Japan seeks to engage with despotic states and to reach out to their people , tyrants can point to the bases as exemplifying Japan 's position as a puppet of the United States and not truly an independent nation at all . So long as its strings appear to be being pulled by the United States , Japan will unable to effectively promote democracy and liberalism amongst its neighbors . By withdrawing its troops , the United States gains an influential ally in the promotion of views in keeping with its own . McCormack , Gavan . 2007 . Client State : Japan in the American Embrace . New York : Verso Press . 	The withdrawal of American soldiers and bases will cause Japan to be perceived as a more legitimate and believable exponent of liberal democratic values in East Asia .
The removal of American soldiers from Japan will greatly benefit the United States ' efforts in other regions of the world . At present groups opposed to the United States , such as al-Qaeda , use Japan as an example of American imperialism ; they point out that when the United States build a military base , they rarely vacate it . This has led to reticence on the part of countries such as Pakistan to ask for American aid in fighting terrorists within its borders and to terrorist organizations being able to recruit soldiers fearing subjection to an American empire . Closing its bases in Japan will serve to soften the United States ' appearance of empire . It will demonstrate that if a base is placed in a country it will be removed when it is no longer needed or wanted . This makes calling upon the United States for aid appear less costly to a state 's sovereignty and makes the presence of American bases elsewhere in the world seem less permanent and odious . All of these perceptual changes will help to further American foreign policy , as it will be met by more compliant , less oppositional states . Perkins , John . 2004 . Confessions of an Economic Hitman . San Francisco : Berrett-Koehler Publishers . 	The removal of American bases from Japan will improve perceptions of the United States by countries around the world .
The days of large standing armies doing battle with one another are over . Power is not measured by the number of foot soldiers a state has , but by its arsenal of fighters , bombers , drones , and aircraft carriers . The United States has accepted this fact belatedly , choosing to maintain a large standing army while also developing more formidable and useful methods of warfare and projecting power . However , escalating costs are starting to make this effort to eat its cake and have it too financially impossible . In order to remain the dominant military power in the 21st century , the United States must accept that its military investments must be made more intelligently , and focus on developing smarter weapons , such as unmanned drones , as well as platforms for conducting war in the modern world , such as aircraft carriers . Removing its bases from Japan would be a first step toward reorganizing the military along these more rational lines . The effort to scale back on ground forces must start somewhere , and Japan is as good as any , considering its lack of need for such forces . 	The removal of ground forces from Japan can serve to begin a general shift in the United States ' military policy from emphasis on ground troops to more useful and effective tools of military power .
The United States may once have had a legitimate reason to maintain a military presence in Japan ; it had a genuine interest in instituting a democratic regime and enforcing a peace after the violence of World War II . Yet now , more than fifty years on , Japan is a thriving , robust democracy that has proven it to be a responsible and markedly conservative actor in international relations . The presence of the United States , originally meant to enforce peace , no longer has any place in Japan . Yet it persists , and not only does it keep its bases and soldiers on bases , it also expects the Japanese government to contribute to their upkeep through a special `` sympathy budget '' levied from the Japanese exchequer each year , which has cost the Japanese taxpayers more than $ 100 billion since 1987 . Clearly , the treatment of the United States of Japan through its maintenance of its forces is illegitimate . 	The United States has no legitimate cause for a military presence in Japan .
London will further lose its position as Europes financial centre , and the financial influence this brings with it . Britains staying out of the Euro has already depleted Londons status as the European financial centre . As explained by Anthony Browne in , The European Central Bank the second most powerful in the world had a natural home in London , but ended up in Frankfurt because of our indecision over the Euro . Germany used this to her advantage , for it reinvigorated Germanys bid to ensure that Frankfurt becomes Europes financial centre , with a massive office-building programme to rival Londons Docklands . Germany seizing Londons sphere of influence will only increase if Britain stays out of the Euro . Moreover , if Britains indecision over the Euro continues , it would lead to a serious rethink by foreign owners of many of the Citys financial institutions about where their core activities should be located . If Britain does join the Euro , her economic activity both at home and between fellow Member States will be badly affected . Browne , A. , 2001 , `` The Euro : Should Britain Join ? '' , page 92 	Britain may not like losing the Queen 's head on banknotes but London will be at a huge economic disadvantage if Britain stays out .
Joining the European single currency -LRB- the Euro -RRB- may appear unfavourable to Britain , but the negative effect of not joining would be more unfavourable . As explained by Anthony Browne in The Euro : Should Britain join ? , `` Euroland businesses are nowable to raise money for investment across the entire single currency zone , making it easier and cheaper . British companies , on the other hand , are still largely constrained to drumming up money from within Britain if they want to expand . Eurozone businesses find it easy to raise money , for they are spared currency conversion charges . The carmaker Nissan has previously told the British government that eliminating exchange rate risk by siting production in the same currency zone as its sales market will be its preferred option . Browne , A. , `` The Euro : Should Britain Join ? '' , Page 89 Morgan , O . `` Nissan tells Blair ` join Euro ' '' , 27 May 2011 , The Guardian 	Britain will lose economically if she stays out of the Euro over the long term .
Before the arrival of the single currency , holiday makers would spend much money on preparing for the trip , before they had even bought a single souvenir or postcard ; travellers touring this fragmented continent could spend large amounts of their money simply changing it from one currency to another . The loss incurred by currency conversion would be eliminated and accommodation abroad will also be cheaper and easier to book ; Joining the Euro will also make it cheaper to send money around Europe . Sending money to book a holiday cottage in another country with another currency can cost 40 . Within Euroland , it would cost less than one Euro - much less than one pound . Browne , A. , 2001 , `` The Euro : Should Britain Join '' . page 102 Browne , A. , 2001 , `` The Euro : Should Britain Join '' . page 103 	Joining the Euro would reduce the cost of travel in Europe .
There will be initial conversion costs and inflation , but this will be short lived . If Britain accepts the Euro , There will be far more powerful forces price transparency and economies of scale in a massive single market that will continuously push the price of British goods down to European levels -LSB- resulting in -RSB- massive savings . . The end of cheaper goods justifies the means of attaining them . Browne , A. , 2001 , `` The Euro : Should Britain Join '' , Page 91 	Amid all the Euroscepticism ( sic ) and xenophobic scaremongering so typical of the British tabloids , Britain forgets the advantage of cheaper goods would come with her entry into the European single currency .
Affordability is a key challenge for slum-dwellers to enter the housing sector - challenges range from being able to access capital required to buy property , to the volatile prices in Africas property market . Improving housing in slums enables dwellers a choice to exit and move up the property ladder . Different approaches have emerged of how provide a means to access finance and generate property markets . First , housing micro-finance schemes are presenting a flexible means to access credit . Second , cooperative loans , such as Nigerias FMBN -LRB- Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria -RRB- are acting to increase homeownership by providing a secondary mortgage market for low-income families and make finance available . The aim is to ensure repayments are equal to rent costs paid . See further readings : Riecke , 2013 . 	There are schemes to finance homebuilding
We live in a planet of slums -LRB- Davis , 2006 -RRB- , and slums remain a key , and growing , characteristic of contemporary African cities . Slums articulate the infrastructural deficit across African cities - investments are needed . Slums are a key urban challenge ; and need to be tackled , removed , and replaced . Slums represent the worst of urban poverty and inequality -LRB- Annan , 2003 : v -RRB- . Slums represent an increasing concern . They are often in unstable environments so are at high risk of being affected by climate change which will further increase costs unless effective strategies are implemented today . Providing safe and secure housing provides a means to tackle articulated problems . Planning will organise the structure of housing communities , follow laws to provide adequate toilets for the population , and enable space for service provision - whether hospitals , police , or schools . Investing in housing will help alleviate chaos ; and implement ordered planning for Cities Without Slums . The Cities Without Slums Campaign was developed in 1999 by the Cities Alliance ; and subsequently included in the MDG . 	Cost-effective planning for Slum Cities
Slum upgrading involves in-situ investment to improve informal settlements ; and integrate slums into the city . Two forms of slum upgrading may be classified : the provision of basic services -LRB- i.e . housing and sanitation -RRB- and the provision of secure land tenure . The burden of disease is higher in slums due to inadequate sanitation , overcrowding , and a lack of ventilation . Diseases and infections - including diarrhoea , cholera , malaria , TB , and tropical diseases , remain prevalent throughout due to stagnant water and a lack of services . Research indicates higher rates of child and elderly mortality in Nairobis slums , in comparison to the rest of the population -LRB- Kyobutungi et al , 2008 -RRB- . Improving housing does not just mean building but also ensuring planning standards are followed to create sufficient living space and facilities to reduce the ill-health disadvantage . 	Upgrading housing : tackling the disease burden
Circumventing censorship is a cost effective method of promoting freedom . When a country has refused to recognise the right to freedom of expression of its own people and indeed is actively stopping them from exercising this right then it is legitimate for other countries to step in to act as an enabler of those rights . By circumventing censorship so the freedom of expression is returned to those that have had their voice stripped from them . Doing this costs the state that is acting almost nothing ; thus Britains Foreign Office is devoting a mere 1.5 million to promoting expression online , and yet the benefits for those who it helps can be considerable by helping them to publicise and organise themselves by providing a platform . The small cost should be compared to the benefit of keeping activists one step ahead of the authorities by , for example providing software that helps make sure online communication is anonymous , which can save lives . William Hague promises 1.5 m to promote freedom of expression online , , 30 April 2012 , 	It is legitimate to enable freedom
What matters for a state when it comes to foreign policy , and therefore with helping to circumvent censorship , is whether the policy is considered legitimate domestically . Since a government 's legitimacy is domestically derived from the support of its people if they support the policy then it is legitimate . While it is often not considered a top priority people in democracies usually support promoting human rights and spreading democracy around the world . Stevenson , Kirsten , Strong support for democracy promotion in national opinion ballot , , 23 October 2012 , 	It is domestic not international legitimacy that matters
Autocratic governments that breach their peoples human rights have no legitimacy domestically as they do not represent the people or protect their interests . They also have no international legitimacy , as they are violating their obligations that they have signed up to through various international agreements such as the universal declaration of human rights and the international covenant on civil and political rights which oblige states to respect their citizens human rights . Other states therefore are legitimate in acting for the people of the repressed state to undermine their government and take up their cause . By imposing censorship the government is violating its people 's freedom of expression which that government has promised to uphold therefore it is right that other governments should endeavour to uphold that standard . It was therefore right for the west to undermine the USSR and the communist governments of Eastern Europe through radio broadcasts such as Voice of America and Radio Free Europe , they gained immense audiences , a third of urban adults in the USSR and almost half of East Europeans with these sources often being considered more credible . UN General Assembly , Universal Declaration of Human Rights , 10 December 1948 , 217 A -LRB- III -RRB- , UN General Assembly , International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights , 16 December 1966 , United Nations , Treaty Series , vol . 999 , p. 171 , Johnson , A. Ross , and Parta , R. Eugene , Cold War International Broadcasting : Lessons Learned , , p. 54 	It is legitimate to undermine illegitimate governments to promote human rights
Yes , Virginia , there is a Santa Claus . He exists as certainly as love and generosity and devotion exist , and you know that they abound and give to your life its highest beauty and joy . Alas ! how dreary would be the world if there were no Santa Claus ! It would be as dreary as if there were no Virginias . There would be no childlike faith then , no poetry , no romance to make tolerable this existence . We should have no enjoyment , except in sense and sight . The external light with which childhood fills the world would be extinguished . Written in answer to a childs letter by Francis Pharcellus Church and published in the New York Suns Editorial Page in 1897 . -LSB- 1 -RSB- 	Santa is a source of hope and joy and faith in the world
Belief in Santa Claus is also economically necessary . Without Santa to set an example of generosity , gift-giving at Christmas could go out of fashion . And once you take Santa out of Christmas , what else would be stripped away - Christmas trees , lights , tinsel , Christmas dinner ? Huge sectors of our economy depend on belief in Santa Claus , from the department store grottoes to the entertainment industry , from toy shops and manufacturers to the makers of wrapping paper , stockings , red hats with bobbles on , etc . . Trust is the basis of all economic exchange , and the consequences of doubt in Santa Claus , in terms of bankruptcies , closures , unemployment and stock market and currency slumps are too awful to imagine . 	Belief in Santa stimulates the economy
Belief in Santa Claus is outdated and rather worrying . Who today has a chimney through which to send a burning message to Santa , and through which he can descend to distribute presents ? Who wears stockings rather than socks or pantyhose ? And who thinks an old white male is a relevant role model in todays society ? There is also something rather sinister today about having a stranger enter childrens rooms at night , or having them whispering secrets to him while seated on his lap in a store . Finally , Santa Claus with his saintly origins alienates those of other faiths who do not enjoy being forced to join in a quasi-Christian celebration . 	Santa is an outdated and slightly worrying figure in the modern world
There is plenty of evidence for the existence of Santa Claus . Millions of children worldwide wake up on Christmas morning to find that their stocking has been magically filled with toys and candy overnight . Everybody agrees that it was Santa who was responsible - and surely if it was anyone else they would want to take credit for their generosity . Further evidence can be found in the way in which cookies , mince pies and drinks left out for Santa have been consumed in the night - often leaving crumbs . 	Many people agree that Santa Exists
Billions of people across the world believe in Santa Claus , and so many people cant be wrong . Whats more , a belief which was once confined to the Anglo-Saxon world is becoming more and more widespread . If Chinese and South American children are coming to accept the existence of Santa Claus , then why should we in the western world give up our belief ? 	Belief in Santa is not confined to Western culture
The 19 century US President Abraham Lincoln stated that democracy should be Government of the people , by the people , for the people Therefore peers who sit in the house based on noble birth right or their membership of the Church of England , that is itself largely ignored by the people , do not represent the people of Britain . 	The House of Lords is out of touch with the electorate .
The traditional provenance of the House of Lords translates to an in-built Conservative majority . Even so called Liberal and Labour peers are usually conservative in their opinions . They represent a social and economic elite and seem to flaunt diversity monitoring in a house with only 181 female peers and a staggeringly low 31 peers from ethnic minorities . This unfair skew in the favour of the conservative has the power to slow down and revise legislation and is a gross misrepresentation of the British population . The House of Lords should be reformed in order to better reflect the British people so that their actions and decisions benefit the whole of society and not just their own . 	The House of Lords has an inbuilt conservative majority .
The House of Lords is undemocratic . Currently the members of the House of Lords consist of hereditary peers , senior members of the Church of England and those appointed by political parties . Whether or not there is an abuse of power or the outcome of the House of Lords is beside the point its very existence in its current state is undemocratic and as such it should be reformed . It seems nonsensical that a country that lectures to the rest of the world the importance of democracy , to the point of war , should overlook such a grievance in their own society . 	The current House of Lords is undemocratic
Reform of the House of Lords would strengthen the legitimacy of the house and therefore improve its functions . By electing the second chamber they would gain the legitimacy to not simply stall bills but reject them all together or drafts bills of their own , thus facilitating a more dynamic government , able to change . Using a different electoral technique , for example Proportional Representation with members sitting for longer periods would allow them to still be of a different composition to the House of Commons and not sway to short-term political popularity . Electing different portions at different times would also guard against a freak landslide result affecting the houses balance . By creating a worthy opposition to the House of Commons all issues would be debated and decided upon more fairly and government would be more closely monitored . 	Reform would strengthen the House of Lords
Impressionable members of the public , particularly children , must be protected from the views of Holocaust deniers . Holocaust deniers are self-publicists and generally very vocal about their strongly-held beliefs . The debate that happens over Holocaust denial will only ever happen in academic circles and are unlikely to ever be accessible to the average person , and is especially unlikely to be accessed by impressionable groups such as children . This means that denial of Holocaust can quickly dominate the popular discourse , giving it more credence and a veneer of being correct by the sheer presence of it . Therefore Holocaust denial must be criminalized to stop impressionable members from being indoctrinated due to the asymmetrical nature of where the debate over Holocaust denial will happen . 	Holocaust denial can spread to children through exposure
Holocaust denial encourages further anti- Semitism . Those who deny the Holocaust are anti-Semitic , usually regarding it as a myth spread by Jews to justify the creation of Israel . This creates the idea of a Jewish conspiracy which entrenches suspicion , hatred and discrimination towards Jews . The more available such opinions are in public , the more people will engage with them and those who would otherwise keep quiet about their fermenting prejudices feel they are part of a larger group which gives them confidence to air their racist opinions . So , Holocaust denial can be seen as a hate-crime , since its aim is to perpetuate racial myths . 	Holocaust denial increases racism and may inspire extreme acts by racist and xenophobic groups
Holocaust denial is extremely offensive to Holocaust victims and members of the persecuted groups . It is highly distressing for these people and removes a feeling of safety that everybody deserves . Due to the severity of the Holocaust , the proposition that it did not occur is an assault on a very fundamental part of ones identity . The Holocaust is a very large part of Jewish identity . The suffering and persecution of the Jewish people during this time has played a large role in how Jewish people perceive themselves and how they as a community have interacted and existed in the world . When one denies the holocaust , you are denying a very large part of what it means to be Jewish and how the Jewish community has come to understand itself through its interactions with the rest of the world . This not only removes feelings of safety and protection , as will be discussed shortly , but is also , more simply , a direct attack on the Jewish community by outright rejecting their very identity as baseless and illegitimate . It is not only offensive but it removes the feeling of safety afforded to groups who suffered during the Holocaust by allowing people to openly reject the occurrence of one of the worst historical experiences of their ancestry . An entire societal acceptance of the occurrence of the Holocaust and its devastating impact on the world is necessary to allow minority groups to feel as though they are protected from it ever happening again . This is especially important when you consider how short a time ago the Holocaust took place . People alive today had grandparents and great uncles who died in the Holocaust and relatives who recall the stories . It is immediately relevant to people alive today and this makes it all the more likely that people fear a repeat . Therefore , Holocaust denial removes the right from descendants of those persecuted in the Holocaust to feel safe and free . Moreover , the Holocaust is often emblematic of the very worst human behaviour and is evoked to illustrate why such behaviour can never be allowed to occur again . Seeking to deny the Holocaust undermines that powerful message . 	Denial of the Holocaust impedes on the rights of minorities .
Holocaust denial being debated in the public sphere implies that it is a legitimate point of view to hold . To debate the Holocaust implies that there are two reasonable viewpoints on the issue . This is not the case : there are no reasonable grounds for believing that the Holocaust did not happen . If reputable historians debate with Holocaust deniers , it implies that the claims of Holocaust deniers have sufficient merit to be considered on the same level as interpretations based upon a fair reading of historical evidence . Welcoming them into the debate grants legitimacy to this very offensive , distressing and damaging viewpoint , which is offensive and damaging to descendants of Holocaust victims and persecuted groups and is more likely to attract more public support . Holocaust denial can therefore only be addressed through the criminal law . 	Holocaust denial legitimises hateful viewpoints as having a basis in `` fact '' .
Undoubtedly , one of the most important aspects which will influence your efforts to improve your life is your ability to take advantage of every opportunity which comes up . Obviously , one of the , if not the , best way to do this is to stay connected with the world around you , this enables you to be able to quickly find out about job opportunities , sporting competitions or social events in your area . Facebook created and developed an efficient , extremely widely visited platform on which millions of users can get in touch with each other . This can prove to be an extremely useful tool both for companies or event planners and direct customers . No matter if we are talking about Google 's new hiring policy or Toyota 's new discount , an upcoming music festival or a football tournament for amateur players , Facebook is informing the individuals about these events , keeping them connected with their community . Social networks are more efficient to serving this purpose than other more conventional means like TV commercials because it is free . A very good example of this is the Kony 2012 campaign , which informed the people about the atrocities that happened in Uganda at the time , mainly relying only on social media . The Youtube video telling its story has more than 98 million views and also there were more posts on Facebook about Kony on March 6th and 7th than even Apples new iPad or TV releases . -LRB- 1 -RRB- No matter if we talk about TV ads , radio commercials or billboards , the price that has to be paid in order to promote an event is a big drawback for anyone who wants to inform the population . As a result , Facebook as with other social media is the online , cheap , efficient equivalent to an info point . -LRB- 1 -RRB- Kyle Willis Kony 2012 Social Media Case Study , March 8 , 2012 	Facebook provides an information point
Social networks aid our society on multiple levels , one of them being the democratic process . This happens both in autocracies , where the democratic process is basically nonexistent and in western liberal democracies where Facebook acts as a megaphone for the will of the population . Firstly , when talking about oppressive regimes , Facebook allows the population to organize themselves in massive protests which can , in time , overthrow the government . This is of particular importance as the population can not organize protests `` offline '' in the real world , because government forces would quickly find them and stop the protests before they even started . These people need a safe house , where government intervention is minimized , so that they can spread the news and organize the protests . The online environment is the best options . We have seen this happening in the Arab Spring -LRB- 1 -RRB- , Brazil -LRB- 2 -RRB- , Turkey -LRB- 3 -RRB- as well as for protests in democracies as in Wisconsin -LRB- 4 -RRB- For western liberal democracies too Facebook plays a very important role in aiding the democratic process . Even in a democracy the government often engages in unpopular policies . Unfortunately , as we are talking about countries with tens of millions of people , citizens often feel they cant make a difference . Luckily , here 's where Facebook comes in . It connects all the people who share the same disapproval of government actions , removing the feeling that you can do nothing as there is no one backing you . Millions can come together to voice their opinions . Therefore there is more likely to be dissent . Moreover , the internet allowed individuals to start massive campaigns of online petition gathering , which they will later use as an irrefutable argument to the government showing the desire for change . There are a lot of sites , one of the biggest being Avaaz.org which facilitates this process , which use Facebook as a medium through which the petition is shared and so grows . -LRB- 1 -RRB- Sonya Angelica Diehn Social media use evolving in Egypt , , 04.07.2013 -LRB- 2 -RRB- Caroline Stauffer Social media spreads and splinters Brazil protests , , June 22 , 2013 -LRB- 3 -RRB- Activists in Turkey use social media to organize , evade crackdown As protests continue across Turkey against the government -LRB- 4 -RRB- Wikipedia 	Facebook is good for democracy
Microfinance is empowering the communities that are using it - showing in development , small is beautiful . Communities are empowered to change their conditions . For example taking the case of savings - microfinance allows for savings . Half of the adults that saved in Sub-Saharan Africa , during 2013 , used an informal , community-based approach -LRB- CARE , 2014 -RRB- . First , having savings reduces household risk . CARE is one of many organisations working in innovations for microfinance . At CARE savings have been mobilised across Africa by working with Village Savings and Loans Associations . Overtime , CARE has targeted over 30,000,000 poor people in Africa , to provide necessary finance . Savings ensures households have financial capital , can invest resources in education , health , and the future . Savings is security in livelihoods . Second , microfinance is providing key skills . Oxfams Savings for Change Initiative provides training on savings , and lending , to women in communities in Senegal and Mali . Evidence from Mali indicates startup capital provided has ensured better food security , womens empowerment in the financial decision-making of households , and crucially , a sense of community bond among the women -LRB- Oxfam , 2013 -RRB- . Gender based violence within households may also be reduced . See further readings : Kim et al , 2007 . 	Small is beautiful : community empowerment
It is plain for all to see how unrepresentative rugby union in South Africa is . While there is not necessarily a deliberate policy of racism , it is very easy for biases to creep in . Across the division where the quotas will come in only about 6 % of players are black , a number that should increase to 33 % . Quotas could help concentrate the mind to ensure that the best team is picked . At grass roots level , there have been some cases of flat-out racial abuse of non-white players , including using racial terms that are particularly offensive in a South African context . Peacock , James , Peter de Villiers says racial quotas are waste of time , , 15 August 2013 , 	Radical action needed for racial equality in South Africa
In 2006 , the South African Social Attitudes Survey revealed that most South Africans -LRB- 56 % -RRB- support a quota system . This support remained roughly the same over a four year period . Sport should reflect the will of the population of the country , if the population wants quotas then there should be quotas . There is particularly strong support from quotas among black people -LRB- 63 % -RRB- implying they feel that something needs to be done in order to let them into the sport . Doing nothing will simply ensure the status quo with very few non-white rugby players remains indefinitely . Struwig , Jare , and Roberts , Ben , The numbers game Public support for sports quotas , , p. 13 , 	Most South Africans support quotas
Allowing the use of racial overtones the perception that a product will bring a person towards a white ideal is harmful for several reasons . It could cause communities to generate a form of inferiority complex , and it reinforces the structural difference rather than aiming to minimize it . While it may sound absurd , in the US darker-skinned African Americans -LRB- and darker skinned latinos -RRB- are less well educated and have lower incomes . Elsewhere in the Western Hemisphere , such as in Brazil , race is seen as an issue of colour and socio-economic background , not ancestry highlighting a much more obvious link between whitening creams and racism . Is it not the role of the state to reduce that discrimination , not to fuel it ? Banning such creams would help prevent such harmful effects by discouraging the notion that people should aim to make themselves lighter skinned . Hunter , Margaret L. , If youre light youre alright : light skin color as social capital for women of color , , 2002 , , p. 35 Telles , Edward , , 2004 , online sample chapter , 	They fuel colourism in society
Development and deployment of tactical nuclear weapons can be viewed as a suitable replacement for the thousands of strategic nuclear missiles and launchers being decommissioned as part of the recently ratified New START between Russia and the United States , which represents a major step toward non-proliferation of strategic nuclear weapons . The treaty exempts tactical nuclear weapons by omitting them from the language of the treaty , including as yet undeveloped miniature warheads , as both the United States and Russia have come to see the possession and deployment of tactical nuclear weapons as key to their national security . Replacing large numbers of strategic nuclear weapons with a smaller quantity of lower capacity tactical weapons marks a major movement away from proliferation of potentially world-destroying weaponry . Furthermore , the movement from proliferation of unusable strategic weapons to tactically viable , smaller nuclear weapons can be used as a means of allaying the fears of citizens in the United States , Russia , and other countries pursuing policies of non-proliferation that their countries nuclear defenses are not only still viable , but more practicable . 	The feeling of security generated by possession of tactical nuclear weapons will give states the political will to decommission standing nuclear arsenals .
States , as the building blocks of international society , have an inviolable right to self-defense , and this right extends to the possession of miniature , tactical nuclear weapons . Often states lack the capacity to defend themselves with conventional weapons . This is particularly true of small and poor states . Even wealthy , small states are susceptible to foreign attack , since their wealth can not make up for their lack of manpower . When armed with tactical nuclear weapons , all states become equal in terms of capacity to do harm to one another . If a large state attempts to intimidate , or even invade a smaller neighbor , it will be unable to effectively cow it , since the small state will have the power to severely damage , or even destroy , the would-be invader 's military capacity with a few well-placed miniature nuclear missiles -LSB- 1 -RSB- . An example of this is the 2008 invasion of Georgia by Russian troops , which would likely never have occurred had Georgia possessed an arsenal of tactical nuclear weapons , as Russia would have thought twice when considering that its large tank formations could be wiped out by a single well-placed tactical warhead . Clearly , nuclear weapons serve in many ways to equalize states irrespective of size , allowing them to more effectively defend themselves . -LSB- 1 -RSB- The Economist . 2011 . A Rivalry that Threatens the World . . Available : 	All countries have an inherent right to self-defense even when they lack the capacity to do so with conventional weapons .
For deterrence to function , rogue states and other international actors with nuclear capabilities , such as North Korea , must believe that their would-be target will retaliate in kind if attacked , tactical nuclear weapons provide a middle option . Given that these rogue states would likely only have access to low-yield nuclear weapons , it is unlikely that they would be able to launch a nuclear attack capable of more than damaging a Western city . Furthermore , the relative difficulty of developing deliverable nuclear weapons means that rogue nations are increasingly looking toward the acquisition and development of alternative weapons of mass destruction , such as chemical , biological , and radiological weapons . Were the United States , or another nuclear power , to be attacked by any of these weapons , it is unlikely that it , or the international community would consider the deployment of a strategic nuclear strike in retaliation to be justified . The response would certainly be disproportionately large , as strategic nuclear missiles can easily level cities , even with the smallest possible payload . This means that in order to maintain effective deterrence , nuclear powers must shift from the paradigm laid out by the doctrine of Mutually Assured Destruction to a `` flexible response '' doctrine , in which countries deploy arsenals of much smaller , tactical nuclear weapons that their enemies honestly believe they will use if provoked . By equipping themselves with a range of weapons , so as to be able to scale responses appropriately , nuclear-armed countries are far likelier to deter potential aggressors in future . Pakistan 's military serves as an example of such tactical nuclear capability ready for action ; its army is armed with an arsenal of mini-nukes that can be used to destroy whole tank formations , with little radioactive fallout dispersing beyond the battlefield . These weapons serve to redress the balance between Pakistani and Indian conventional military capacity . As Pakistan is woefully outnumbered and outgunned in conventional weapons , its tactical nuclear arsenal can deliver devastating damage to massed Indian army formations , preventing any potential invasion . Clearly , tactical nuclear weapons are useful weapons in a country arsenal , preparing it to be more flexible in its application of nuclear force . 	Tactical nuclear warheads are more serviceable for use in intimidation and retaliation toward enemies , as they are considerably less catastrophically destructive than those of current nuclear arsenals .
Research and development into tactical nuclear weapons are essential for countries to maintain their technological edge in the field of nuclear science . The United States has long enjoyed technological dominance in the field of nuclear weaponry . However , in recent years China and Russia have begun to pour effort into developing ever-smaller nuclear weapons for tactical deployment . If the United States and the other nuclear powers wish to maintain their position within the nuclear tech order , they must begin investing further in development of similar miniaturized nuclear devices . Research into the design and construction of mini-nukes provides a number of benefits beyond the tactical flexibility conferred by such weapons . First , developing mini-nukes puts designers and scientists in the West on the same intellectual page as those seeking to devise nuclear weapons suitable for use in terrorist attacks , such as so-called suitcase-nukes . By learning how to build such weapons scientists will be able to devise means of counteracting them should an enemy attempt to employ them in an attack . Furthermore , the miniaturization of nuclear weapons has applications in other nuclear technologies such as in the design and manufacture of smaller nuclear power facilities . Military technology always finds an outlet in civilian use . Such was case with Cold War technological endeavors , such as the Space Race , which yielded everything from superior computer processors to ballpoint pens . Clearly , the public will in many ways reap the boons arising from the development of smaller tactical nuclear weapons . 	Designing and constructing tactical nuclear weapons allow a state 's scientists to maintain a competitive position in nuclear technology .
There are a number of technological developments that have made the use of conventional weapons ineffective in combating certain threats . For example , some bunkers are buried so deeply underground that conventional bombs can not penetrate them . Weapons such as the Robust Nuclear Earth Penetrator -LRB- RNEP -RRB- , currently in development in the United States , would be able to penetrate such bunkers , while leaving no more surface damage than a conventional bomb . Deployment of a weapon such as the RNEP might prove necessary in order to stop proliferation of nuclear weapons in rogue states , as for example , Iran has built extremely tough bunkers for the purpose of nuclear testing and storage of weapons of mass destruction . Blocking the development of necessary tactical nuclear technologies actually raises the chances of these dangerous states obtaining nuclear weapons . Another instance of tactical nuclear devices proving useful is in the destruction of clandestine biological and chemical weapons factories . Were such facilities destroyed by conventional bombing , some of the materials being manufactured could easily leak into neighbouring population areas , leading to increased casualties . Clearly , in light of these defense innovations , tactical nuclear weapons are an essential addition to a nuclear power 's arsenal . 	Countries need to design nuclear devices to adapt with changing defensive technology .
When we see people still unpunished for offences in society they 've clearly committed , it damages our faith in the justice system . Our bargain with the state entails the state 's right to judge the individual because the state protects the individual : if our attackers roam the streets because an arbitrary legal rule exempts them from prosecution despite clear guilt , then that system has broken down . When Jennifer McDermott witnessed her daughter 's murderer get convicted at a re-trial , she described it as a ` victory for everyone who feels let down by the justice system . ' Victims deserve such justice and it is an insult to them , and all of us , to see their persecutors go free . As a Home Office spokesman stated when England overturned the double jeopardy ban , ` it is important the public should have full confidence in the ability of the criminal justice system to deliver justice . ' Justice is only applicable when the perpetrators remain within the arm of the law ; double jeopardy prevents this . 	Abolishment of the rule would restore faith in the justice system
All the rules and laws that protect the accused at the first trial will be in place at a second - it 's not as if the rule of law suddenly disappears . The presumption of innocence , proof beyond reasonable doubt , the right to a fair hearing and competent counsel , the judge 's duty to appropriately direct the jury , etc . will all continue to apply and prevent miscarriages of justice from occurring . Nor is the system likely to be overwhelmed with retrials . Much of the current push for the end of the double jeopardy rule comes from the widespread use of DNA testing , which has allowed many old cases to be revisited with compelling new evidence of guilt or innocence . Mark Weston , for example , was convicted at a re-trial after specks of the victim 's blood were found on Weston 's shoes , justifying the re-opening of the case . After a few years , the impact of DNA testing on solving similar cold cases will be expended and there will be very few retrials . 	The rules and laws that protect the accused will remain at retrial
The problem with the ` double jeopardy ' rule is that people who are clearly guilty - because new evidence has emerged , because they 've confessed - are not being punished for crimes they have committed . We believe that guilty people should be punished for their crime , and our justice system should be tailored to allow that . In 2009 , a footballer in London confessed to murdering his ex-girlfriend at a re-trial after fresh evidence was found to overturn the original verdict ; under previous double jeopardy laws in Britain , the murderer would have remained free . We have as great a duty to ensure miscarriages of justice are not perpetrated on victims as on accused . An offence committed ten years ago does not cease to be an offence because time has passed , or because the perpetrator has managed to evade justice in the past . The criteria by which the decision to charge an individual is taken ought to be likelihood of guilt , not whether or not they have had a trial before . 	Abolishment of double jeopardy would ensure the guilty do not escape punishment
The scrapping of the double jeopardy would be practicable if it was permitted for serious crimes , like murder and rape , and only when fresh , compelling evidence of guilt emerges that calls into question the original acquittal . Such restrictions on any scrapping of the rule would not tie up courts in re-trials , for they could only be called for certain crimes in certain , restricted conditions . The British Law Commission in a 2011 review concluded that whilst the ancient rule of double jeopardy is of ` fundamental importance ' , it should be possible to `` quash acquittals in murder trials where there is ` reliable and compelling new evidence of guilt ' '' . In practise , this would preserve the traditional advantages of the law , whilst ensuring that those who are guilty , and can be proved so , do not remain free . 	Double jeopardy could be abolished by state legislatures for all serious crimes whereby fresh , compelling evidence emerges
The primary duty placed on doctors , by society and themselves , is the preservation of life . In pursuing this goal they use not only medicines and scalpels but , first and foremost , their judgement . In many countries practising medics swear an oath to this effect ; although these vary greatly in detail , they are well encapsulated by the Declaration of Geneva , the critical clause of which for the purpose of this debate is The health of my patient will be my first consideration . Asking doctors to take other considerations into account is not only a breach of their professional integrity , it also poses grave risks for society . They are being asked , in this situation , to allow the opinions of a third party take precedence over the wellbeing of their patient . If this were a younger relative with their eye on an inheritance or a distant sibling seeking to settle an old score , the dangers would be all too apparent . In this instance , the motivation may be well-intentioned but it is no more reasonable . Allowing relatives to say well , what I think you should do is X in defiance of medical opinion is fraught with dangers . If a relative decided on behalf of a patient to reject chemotherapy in favour of prayer or expressed their preference for Shamanic rituals rather than medication , why not let them . After all their intent is just as compassionate and their reasoning as solid . There are several forms of the declaration some of them , including the modern one in most common usage , can be found . 	The right to live to regret
The protection of children is treated differently from how we address the needs of adults . The very fact that their parents consent for procedures is required acknowledges that fact . We further accept that when that consent is questionable - when the parents may not be acting in the best interests of the child - that right may be revoked . In most instances of such revocation , if the parent is an addict or mentally incapable of a particular decision , such a decision can be determined well in advance . However , in this instance , the status of the parent has not previously been an issue . However , the same principles should surely apply . For example , if a parent has been denied access rights to their child by a court , they would have no standing in making any such decision . If their child is a ward of the court , the same would apply . Society has a general duty to at least keep children alive until they reach the age of majority and remove all possible obstacles to that happening . We do not allow parents to give their children the right to pursue other harmful activities or to take unnecessary risks with their safety ; the principle of a presumption of protection would also apply here . 	The status of the child
Nobody is questioning the rights of adults to take actions in accordance with their faith , even when these may cause them some personal harm . Their beliefs may well lead them to conclusions that others might consider reckless but that is their concern . However , when those actions impact others in society , it is a matter for social concern and , frequently , the intervention of the law . If that harm is caused to those who can not resist or who are incapable of responding , intervention is required . The law explicitly includes children in this category . We do not , for example , allow religious practices such as sacrifice or torture in pursuit of a religious end , however religiously convicted the parents might be . The case of Kristy Bamu , murdered by his parents , practitioners of voodoo , in the belief he was a witch , is just one such example . We expect the legal and medical professions to accord particular protection to children against the actions of others that could harm them including , in extremis , their parents . It is difficult to see what could be a more flagrant example of possible harm than allowing your child to die when an available remedy could save their life . 	Religious freedom does not allow for the right to harm others
There is increasing evidence that a more active and involved Civil Society is good for economic development . Specifically , CSOs are believed to have a crucial role for African development prospects . The Local Economic Development Network of Africa argues that In particular , they often know what are the employment and income generation needs of different groups within the population and what could stimulate better outcomes for them . It is very important , therefore , that they are involved and consulted -LRB- 2013 -RRB- . In addition CSOs autonomously implement development programmes . Only to give an example , in Nepal CSOs in the Education for Income Generation program have played a crucial role in building up workers skills resulting in 80 % being in employment many striking out entrepreneurially on their own5 . It is therefore necessary for African governments to guarantee such organizations and grant them a wider participation . 	Civil society is good for economic development
The involvement of civil society in political life is all the more crucial in Africa , where newborn democracies need to be strengthened and consolidated . Active CSOs function as a watchdog for political power and as alternative channels for citizens political participation , thus strengthening democratic accountability . Indeed , several scholars highlight that a prostrate civil society is to be identified as a fundamental factor in determining the regions democratic instability -LRB- Scott , 1998 , as quoted in Lewis , 2002 : 576 -RRB- . Civil society is a hitherto -LRB- missing key -RRB- to sustained political reform , legitimate states and governments , improved governance , viable state-society and state-economy relations , and prevention of the kind of political decay that undermined new African governments a generation ago -LRB- Harberson , 1994 : 1-2 -RRB- . The sustainability of African democracies thus depends on the promotion of a more active and participative civil society . 	civil societys involvement in political life is necessary to strengthen democratic accountability
Former UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan has stated that good governance is perhaps the single most important factor in eradicating poverty and promoting development . It is therefore impossible to ignore the claim that CSOs involvement in political life is crucial to promote good governance practices . Civil Society is able to create additional pressure on the government to ensure good governance , as well as to contribute ideas about what good governance practices should entail in the specific local context , and to bridge the gap between the law and its actual implementation -LRB- 2007 -RRB- . Good governance in Africa is ultimately going to come from civil society in the countries themselves , declared Jendayi Frazer , former U.S. assistant secretary of state for African affairs . An article in The Guardian shows how CSOs can help : In the Ileje district of southern Tanzania , expectant mothers about to give birth had to cross a crocodile-infested river into Malawi because a local medical centre did not have enough money to pay for a midwife . It took a campaign by civil society organisations and citizens to uncover that there was money available , but that it had somehow been diverted . CSOs involvement ultimately permitted the solution of the issue . Kofi Annan , Partnerships for Global Community : Annual Report on the Work of the Organisation -LRB- UN , 1998 -RRB- 	The involvement of CSOs promotes good governance practices
Businesses operating in a free market are concerned principally with their bottom lines . In order to increase profits , firms will seek to exploit workers , to lower wages as far as possible . This exploitation will continue indefinitely , unless the state intervenes . The state does so by implementing a minimum wage . The lowest paid workers tend to be less educated , less skilled , and less organized than higher-paid employees . This makes them the easiest to manipulate and the easiest to replace . In order to stop this outright exploitation of the most vulnerable members of society , the power of wage setting must fall to some extent within the purview of the state . Certainly , it is far better for state , which has citizens best interest at heart , to weigh in on the issue of setting wages than businesses , which tend not to care about their workers welfare or have competing interests . Furthermore , a minimum wage sends a social signal of valuation ; it affirms that all people have worth , can not be exploited , and are owed by dint of their humanity a certain level of treatment in the workforce , i.e . a minimum wage . This is important as a means to assist the self-empowerment of the poorest members of society , by encouraging them to value themselves . Also , the minimum wage aids in promoting social justice and equality by lowering wage disparities . Citizens of more equal societies tend to have more in common and can share more in the construction of societal goals and aims . This form of social justice is certainly preferable to the class divisions propagated in the absence of a minimum wage , in which a part of society is relegated to permanent wage slavery . Waltman , The Politics of the Minimum Wage , 2000 	the minimum wage aids in the propagation of social justice and the fair treatment of workers
When wages are extremely low the incentive to enter alternative markets is increased . This is particularly harmful in the case of illegal markets , such as those for drugs or prostitution . When there is little to be gained from obtaining a legitimate job , no matter how plentiful they might be in the absence of a minimum wage , they would be undesirable by comparison to potentially highly lucrative black market opportunities . The minimum wage is essential for keeping the opportunity cost of entering the black market sufficiently high that people opt always to enter the mainstream , legal market . Furthermore , when the possibility of work in the legitimate market exists , even if work is harder to find due to a minimum wage , the very possibility of getting such a job will serve as a disincentive to pursuing illegal employment . 	the minimum wage encourages people to join the workforce rather than pursuing income through illegal channels
Employees work harder when they are paid more , but employers can often be more concerned with the short-term bottom line and will not treat workers in the lowest echelons of their firms with much consideration , viewing them instead as disposable and replaceable economic units . Mandating a minimum wage can thus benefit firms , even if they do not recognize it , by making workers more productive and also fostering a general work ethic . As workers feel more valued in the economic system , the more likely they are to work loyally and diligently for their employers . Furthermore , better pay means more disposable income in the hands of employees , which leads to greater demand by them for goods and services . This demand-induced economic growth is a very important part of economic growth . The more people are able to spend , the more money flows into the economy , leading to more business and higher employment . Without the minimum wage , a downward spiral of spending can ensue , proving deleterious to firms and the economy generally . Additionally , the minimum wage decreases expensive social welfare payments , since workers no longer need as many supplements to their wages from the state in order to make up for the shortfall created by too-low wages . Freeman , Minimum Wages Again ! , 1994 	higher wages boost economic growth
Without a minimum wage , the lowest paid members of society are relegated to effective serfdom , and their decisions of these members often force others to follow suit , accepting similarly low wages . There is no real freedom of choice for people at this lowest level of the social structure , since they must accept whatever wage is offered in order to feed themselves and their families . Their poverty and desperation for work makes it much more difficult for them to act collectively to bargain for better wages . The minimum wage frees people from this bondage and guarantees them resources with which to make meaningful choices . Without resources there can be no true choice , as all choices would be coerced by necessity . Because peoples choices are intrinsically interconnected , and wages tend to reflect the prevailing pressures of demand and supply , when an individual makes the choice to work for less than anyone else , he necessarily lowers the wage that others can ask , leading to a downward spiral of wages as workers undercut one another , each competing to prove he is worth the least . A minimum wage ensures workers do not harm each other through self-destructive wage competition . What the minimum wage does to alleviate these problems is that it gives individuals the ability to pursue the good life , something that has become a global ideal . People want to be happy , and find that only way to obtain the resources necessary to attain comfort and security is through employment . Fundamentally , the minimum wage grants the freedom not to be exploited , giving individuals the freedom to control their own destinies . Waltman , The Politics of the Minimum Wage , 2000 Hillman , Public Finance and Public Policy : Responsibilities and Limitations of Government , 2009 	the minimum wage provides a baseline minimum allowing people to embark freely in the pursuit of happiness
Currently , Puerto Ricans do not receive full political rights and equal representation , despite their American citizenship . Although it has its own Governor and legislature which handles some domestic matters , inhabitants of Puerto Rico receive no say in US federal matters or foreign policy , despite being heavily affected by them -LRB- more so than most current American states , as Puerto Rico sits in the Caribbean surrounded by other island nation-states -RRB- . If Puerto Rico became a US state , Puerto Ricans would then share as everyone else in full benefits from the US government , while paying taxes like everyone else . The status quo perpetuates a semi-colonial situation in Puerto Rico , where American citizenship , which they have held since 1917 , carries fewer rights than in the US proper . This has been the situation since the US captured Puerto Rico in 1898 , and no other US territory has been held in limbo like this for so long . During this time Puerto Ricans have supported the US by serving in large numbers , both voluntarily and through conscription , in the US military in every major war since the Spanish-American War . However the island 's current status still prompts United Nations to still debate whether Puerto Rico is a colony . US congressional inquest into Puerto Rico 's political situation has found that , despite the divergent views that Puerto Ricans have with respect to their preferred political status , all factions agree on the need to end the present undemocratic arrangement whereby Puerto Rico is subject to the laws of Congress but can not vote in it . The former chief justice of the Puerto Rico Supreme Court , Jose Trias Monge , has written a book on the political status of Puerto Rico entitled Puerto Rico : The Trials of the Oldest Colony in the World . Therein he argued that just prior to the U.S. invasion , the Island enjoyed greater freedom and rights in certain areas than it does now , including an insular parliament that could legislate in matters of monetary policy , banking , import/export duties , and public credit ; the ability of Puerto Rico to negotiate its own commercial treaties ; Puerto Ricans were Spanish citizens , equal in all respects to mainland Spanish citizens ; the Spanish Constitution applied in Puerto Rico in the same manner as it applied in Spain proper ; the Autonomic Charter of 1897 , which governed Puerto Rico 's relation with Spain , could not be changed except with Puerto Rico 's consent . The political rights currently enjoyed by Puerto Ricans , such as their right to elect their own Governor , are not even guaranteed to them in the status quo . In 1993 , the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit stated that Congress may unilaterally repeal the Puerto Rican Constitution or the Puerto Rican Federal Relations Act and replace them with any rules or regulations of its choice . To perpetuate this current second-class status is morally unacceptable in a nation which pledges itself to liberty and justice for all . Monge , Jose Trias . Puerto Rico : The Trials of the Oldest Colony in the World . Yale University Press . 1997 . 	Puerto Ricans deserve full political rights and citizenship
American statehood would lead to significant economic growth for Puerto Rico . Statehood would mean that the island would shed its ineffective and costly reliance on preferential tax credits and more fully integrate into the national economy . In a study by Hexner , Jenkins , Lad and Lame , `` Puerto Rican Statehood : A Precondition to Sound Economic Growth , '' the case is persuasively made that statehood is necessary for the island 's economic growth . As an American state , the standard of living in Puerto Rico would profoundly improve for the average person . With average income going up , families would be able to pay their fair share of taxes while still improving their net income and standard of living . For those with low incomes , the U.S. citizens of Puerto Rico would have the same access to tax relief and federal support programs as any other citizen of the country , unlike under the present status where significant disparities exist . This is particularly significant as approximately 50 % of Puerto Ricans live under the federal poverty line . Many areas of US Federal funding to Puerto Rico would actually improve . For example , the current 50 states can receive up to 90 % reimbursement through Medicaid for critical health information technologies ; Puerto Rico is not eligible for these supplements . According to 2005 Congressional testimony by Governor Anibal Acevedo-Vila , had Puerto Rico been treated like the other states , it would have received $ 1.7 billion dollars in federal Medicaid support instead of the $ 219 million received . Translated to monthly amounts , federal Medicaid support in the states approximated $ 330 per month per participant ; the amount in Puerto Rico was about $ 20 per month . The US is one of the richest countries on earth , and being a full part of it would give Puerto Ricans a lot of practical advantages that the independent countries of the Spanish-speaking Caribbean lack . The right to move to the US-proper and work there legally , for example , is extremely valuable . Overall , therefore , there is a compelling economic case for Puerto Rico to seek American statehood . 	Puerto Rico would benefit economically from statehood
Some have made the argument that Puerto Rico should not be a state because Puerto Ricans do not speak English , and that the US should not have a non-English speaking state . This argument does not hold up for the following reasons : English is already an official language on the island with the same status as Spanish . Puerto Ricans are already citizens of the U.S. , and have been since1917 . There was no language requirement with the granting of citizenship then , so it makes no sense to ask this question now . In fact , there has never been a language requirement of territories entering the union in American history . English is a required subject in public schools through high school . English is the only language of the Federal Court system and all U.S. government agencies in Puerto Rico and is the common language in banking , commerce , real estate and the tourism industry . Learning English as well as Spanish just makes good sense . English is the international language of business , science , and increasingly , diplomacy . Puerto Rico should do all it can to increase English language capability . But , making it a requirement of statehood would ignore the precedents of Enabling Acts of Louisiana , New Mexico , Oklahoma and Arizona , all of which similarly had issues of large non-English speaking populations and gave or give these other languages some official status in law . 	English is not a problem for Puerto Rican statehood
Tragically , some babies are unwanted , but this does not mean that we should kill them . There are plenty of other options , notably adoption . If anything , the case for adoption is more compelling in the third trimester , because the pregnancy is nearer to its natural end and there is less time , only about ten weeks , for the mother to have to put up with it . Unwanted pregnancy and adoption may be psychologically harmful , but in many cases so is abortion , particularly at a late stage of pregnancy when the mother can see that the dead foetus is recognisably a baby - the guilt feelings associated with feeling that one is responsible for murdering a child can be unbearable . 	Abortion is wrong per se when there are alternatives such as adoption
If birth is the crucial dividing-line we use to decide when legal personhood begins , then we should not be allowed to induce birth and then deliberately kill a foetus during that process - this is different from early abortion in which birth is induced and the foetus dies naturally . Partial-birth abortion is murder , even on the pro-choice understanding of personhood . 	If personhood accrues at birth , then abortion after inducing birth is wrong
Economists use the term network effect to describe the phenomenon whereby , as several people use the same communication platform -LRB- be it a specific device , such as a telephone , or a complicated service , such as Facebook -RRB- , it becomes more valuable for others to use because they can share and collaborate on work with a wider range of individuals . Network effects explain why Microsofts monopoly of around 90 % of the desktop market with its Windows and Office software has been so hard to challenge . Governments are one of the few organisations which can define industry standards because citizens and businesses increasingly have to interact with governments electronically . Brazils Digital Inclusion Program , for example , has selected open source software for 58 government units rather than Windows or Microsoft Office . The result is that businesses and Brazilian citizens can use the same open source software at home , knowing they will be able to interact with their government . As open source software is often either free or cheaper than closed source alternatives , this approach enables local authorities , private businesses and individual citizens to interact more easily with the state , removing many of the obstacles and objections to the wider adoption of information technology . 	Governments can re-define industry standards by choosing open source software .
Even when governments do not ultimately select an open source program , by simply including them in the competitive bidding process , they have been able to radically change the approach that Microsoft and other closed source companies take to producing IT solutions . Under threat from Linux , Microsoft has launched the Open Source Initiative through which it shares elements of some of its programs source code with key partners to enable the development of software for platforms like Windows Mobile . More dramatically , in 2002 , Real Networks opened up the source code for its world renowned RealPlayer media and music software package and , in 2005 , IBM offered 500 key patents -LRB- out of 40,000 -RRB- to the open source community . Sun Microsystems released its Solaris server operating system to the open source community under the Common Development and Distribution licence in 2005 . If you accept that the open source software industry is a positive force , then simply by considering open source software , governments are doing well . 	Government contracts can change the software industry for the better .
Open source software starts from a completely different viewpoint of how products should be created . Rather than resembling a traditional hierarchical organisation -LRB- such as an early twentieth century business , an army or a monastic order -RRB- where everyone has their own clearly defined role and are told how to proceed by a top-down central authority , open-source software development is more like an open market where everyone is engaged in the same activity but come at it from different directions . Out of this cacophonous market , a more fluid product emerges . The basic advantage of open source software is that , as users can read , redistribute , and modify the source code for a piece of software , it evolves . This means that users and programmers can improve , adapt and fix the software at a much faster pace than Microsoft or another closed source developer can match . The highly collegiate culture in which contemporary approaches to coding evolved continues to create programmers who are naturally curious about the functions and features of new software . Open source software harnesses the wide range of ideas and methodologies that different coders use to writer software to refine and improve existing programmes . Open source software solicits a wide variety of solutions to particular coding problems ; the more solutions that coders generate , the more likely it is that an optimal solution will be discovered . Not only does the approach described above result in the creation of higher quality programmes , it also allows businesses and individual coders to easily adapt existing programmes to their needs . Monopolistic producers like Microsoft have an incentive to slow the pace of change , whereas the open source community will simply choose the best solution . In this way , open source software is more robust and more responsive to governments changing needs than closed source alternatives . 	Open source software is more adaptable to government needs .
Reality TV is dishonest it pretends to show reality but it actually distorts the truth to suit the programme makers . The shows are not really real they are carefully cast to get a mix of characters who are not at all typical . Mostly they show a bunch of young , good-looking self-publicists , who will do anything to get on TV . Usually the programme makers try to ensure excitement by picking people who are likely to clash with each other . They then place them in unnatural situations , such as the Big Brother house or the Survivor island , and give them strange challenges in order to provoke them into behaving oddly . In The Bachelor , where a group of women compete for the affections of an eligible male , the intimate dates they go on are filmed in front of any number of camera ; that is not reality -LRB- Poniewozik , 2003 -RRB- . Finally the makers film their victims for hundreds of hours from all angles , but only show the most dramatic parts . Selective editing may be used to create storylines and so further manipulate the truth of what happened . 	Reality shows are not 'real ' , therefore they have no education value
Reality shows are bad , lazy and corrupting television . They mostly show ordinary people with no special talents doing very little . If they have to sing or dance , then they do it badly which doesnt make for good entertainment . They rely on humiliation and conflict to create excitement . Joe Millionaire , where a group of women competed for the affections of a construction worker who they were told was a millionaire , was simply cruel.The emotions of the contestants were considered expendable for the sake of making viewers laugh at their ignorance . Furthermore , the programmes are full of swearing , crying and argument , and often violence , drunkenness and sex . This sends a message to people that this is normal behaviour and helps to create a crude , selfish society . One American reality show , Are You Hot ? , in which competitors submit to a panel of judges for appearance-rating , was blamed by eating disorder experts as encouraging the notion that appearance is the most important thing -LRB- Becker , 2003 -RRB- . Furthermore , Paul Watson , a former reality TV show producer , believes they are predictable and just creates more of the same and makes our film makers lazy -LRB- Jury , 2007 -RRB- . 	Reality shows make for bad , lazy and corrupting television , encouraging such behaviour in society
Reality shows send a bad message and help to create a cult of instant celebrity . They are typically built about shameless self-promotion , based on humiliating others and harming relationships for the entertainment of each other and the viewers at home . These programmes suggest that anyone can become famous just by getting on TV and `` being themselves '' , without working hard or having any particular talent . Kids who watch these shows will get the idea that they do n't need to study hard in school , or train hard for a regular job . As John Humphrys points out , ` we tell kids what matters is being a celebrity and we wonder why some behave the way they do ' As American lawyer Lisa Bloom fears , ` addiction to celebrity culture is creating a generation of dumbed-down women . ' Reality shows encourage such addictions and promote the generally misguided belief that they should aspire to be the reality stars they watch on their televisions . 	Reality TV encourages people to pursue celebrity status , and discourages the value of hard work and an education
Reality TV is actually getting worse as the audience becomes more and more used to the genre . In a search for ratings and media coverage , shows are becoming ever more vulgar and offensive , trying to find new ways to shock . When the British Big Brother was struggling for viewers in 2003 , its producers responded by attempting to shock the audience that little bit more . `` Big Brother '' programmes have also shown men and women having sex on live TV , all in a desperate grab for ratings to justify their continued existence . Others have involved fights and racist bullying . Do we let things continue until someone has to die on TV to boost the ratings ? 	The sheer number of reality programmes is now driving TV producers to create filthier , more corrupt reality shows
In the status quo , the ability of think tanks to be non-transparent potentially provides a framework for criminal groups , or in extreme cases organisations , to handle large amounts of money without revealing where their money comes from or goes . We are allowing extremist groups to be exempt from answering to the government or shareholders in their management of money or information . In the US and Canada , think tanks are also exempt from tax . By this mechanism , false think tanks can be used , for example , to channel money from openly extremist groups that could otherwise not access those parts of the world . 26 USC 501 - Exemption from tax on corporations , certain trusts , etc . , Legal Information Institute 	Think tanks may become smoke screens for criminal groups
Non-disclosure can be perceived as objectivity . It is easier for the public to criticise a think tank that is openly associated with a particular funder . That kind of prejudice is stronger than the more general the prejudice against non-disclosure . A person might distrust a non-transparent think tank , but dislike a think tank that is funded by an organisation they are already prejudiced towards . In any comparison between two such organisations the distrusted organisation will have greater impact than the disliked organisation . This gives non-transparent think tanks an advantage over transparent and honest ones . Billionaires are then able to buy influence by secretly funding organisations such as the Global Warming Policy Foundation or the Institute of Economic Affairs that is then listened to , by the media and therefore the public , when their own views would simply be dismissed due to the personal motivations of the backers . By forcing all think tanks to reveal their funding , we level the playing field . Bentley , Guy . The state funding swindle : how left wing think-tanks are pulling taxpayer-funded wool over our eyes , Commentary , The Commentator . 20 September 2012 , The Political Activity of Think Tanks : The Case for Mandatory Contributor Disclosure , Harvard Law Review , Vol . 115 , No . 5 , March 2002 , pp . 1502-1524 . Monbiot , George . The educational charities that do PR for the rightwing ultra-rich , Comment is Free , The Guardian . 18 February 2013 	The status quo promotes non-transparency
Democracies rely on transparency . Our commitment to transparency means surrendering part of our autonomy for the collective . This does not mean that our autonomy does not still belong to us ; the institutions that affect our lives are under a constant obligation to justify their decisions and existence in relation to us . I do not have a right to know everything about the local football club -LRB- if I dont play football and they are not a public company their decisions dont affect me -RRB- . Think tanks , however , are highly influential , and directly affect the society in which we live : some have , for example , lobbied successfully against action to prevent global warming . Therefore they are to be considered a power in society , and the principle of transparency must be extended to them . Monbiot , George . The educational charities that do PR for the rightwing ultra-rich , Comment is Free , The Guardian . 18 February 2013 , 	People have a right to know where their information comes from
Think tanks are considered more credible than corporate marketing . In the case of corporate marketing the recipient is aware that he is being sold a product . In the case of think tanks , the recipient believes he is being given unbiased information . Therefore , it is tempting for corporations to finance think tanks and encourage them to reach the conclusions that they otherwise would promote through marketing . This way , think tanks can be powerful tools for promoting a biased agenda : if done successfully the same message is communicated but in the form of credible information rather than manipulative marketing . In fact , it is common practice for journalists to quote think tanks without labelling their political bias . And they most certainly dont say if there is funding from a particular interest for example with the supposedly free market Institute of Public Affairs in Australia that somehow ends up arguing for government investment and intervention in Northern Australia a position suspiciously close to several big mining companies . This violates peoples freedom to make an informed decision , and can give biased views disproportionate and undue influence . By forcing them to disclose , any corruption or bias will become obvious to all . Mayer , Jane . Covert Operations , A Reporter at Large , The New Yorker . 30 August 2010 Dolny , Michael . Whats in a Label ? , Extra ! , FAIR . 1 May 1998 MediaWatch , Disclosing the funding of think tanks , , 27 May 2013 , 	Think tanks power of objectivity is the best form of marketing for biased views
Even think tanks benefit from the introduction of this policy . The status quo leaves disclosure as a strategic device : think tanks are unwilling to disclose more than their competition for fear of being unfavourably portrayed . Such negative competition , i.e . competition in factors that do not improve the products of the market , makes them unable to make rational decisions about their funding if , for instance , potential funders want to contribute only on the condition that this funding be made public . As a consequence , the advent of organisations who call for transparency has been praised by prominent think tanks like the New Economics Foundation . By depriving everybody of the strategic tool of revealing none or only a part of their funding , think tanks can not be pressured into hiding or providing certain information about their funders , and they can thus act more independently . Read , Sam . Think tank funding matters : its central to democracy , , 22 June 2012 , 	Legally requiring disclosure from all benefits think tanks
Cultural heritage is often very important to people , particularly to new immigrants who are already feeling the loss of their old ways of life . It is a matter of luck whether we are born in a country with lots of opportunities , or are forced to travel if we wish to seek a better life . As such , we should not penalise such unfortunate people but rather allow them to continue to practice important cultural practices . Britain has introduced support for a number of non-Christian faith schools that both respect and encourage the faiths and cultures of its students , many of whom are first or second-generation immigrants . 	People should not have to sacrifice their culture because of an accident of birth .
Neither the state nor the majority or host community has a monopoly on the knowledge of the best way to live life . As such , we each have to seek out this `` good life '' for ourselves ; it varies depending on our individual values and priorities . Multiculturalism allows that there is a greater choice between ways of living , rather than everyone being `` integrated '' into a way of life that varies very little . Even if some ways of life are actively harmful , the law exists to protect us against such excesses . In the United States for example , polygamy is illegal in all 50 states despite states like Utah and Colorado having large populations of Mormons that believe in the practice . Mormon culture is nevertheless still pervasive in these areas . This acts as proof that the state is able to draw a line between what is right and wrong without infringing upon the ideals of a multi-cultural society . 	There is no one best way to live life : differences should be enabled as long as others are not harmed .
Assimilation expects immigrants to shed their cultural heritage It is expected that recent immigrants to a country will shed major parts of their cultures and values to adapt to those of the host country . But , this is unrealistic . Nobody will quickly shed and adopt the new cultural elements of a nation ; a major flaw of the assimilation model . For example , America , often used as the prime example of assimilation , is not the melting pot once thought . America is a land of many cultures , where important and sustained cultural divisions between Americans persist . Assimilationist doctrine claims it is working towards a sense of one American-ness , but there are two problems with this notion . One , America is a land built on democratic difference very different political groups can and do exist . Two , American assimilation has had a troubling history consisting of a dominating , white power structure aiming to restrict extending American citizen to all citizens , and denying human rights to all citizens -LRB- often because of race or skin colour -RRB- . 	It is unreasonable to expect immigrants to shed their cultures and integrate .
Dictatorships are better at controlling discipline and order within society . They generally promote a state based on hierarchical values , through strict policies based on security . This allows them to prevent financial losses due to strikes and riots , and reduce crime rates , making the country more stable . Singapore is a de-facto one party state , in which the ruling Peoples Action Party , is accused of stopping the operation of opposition parties . A former Foreign Minister of Singapore has asked How many Singaporeans really want free speech anyway ? They want orderliness , a decent living . This both makes the country more competitive because there are more productive days and more attractive to invest in as expats will want to live in countries with little crime . Moreover when it comes to attracting immigration for sectors of the economy there is none of the opposition that would occur in democracies . Autocracy may be the only way to stabilize some countries that have never had a democratic government . It has been suggested by Mancur Olson , a leading economist , that anarchy not only involves loss of life but also increases the incentives to steal and to defend against theft , and thereby reduces the incentive to produce . A dictatorship may be the only way to restore order and create a political framework stable enough for trade and investment . Huff , W.G . -LRB- 1994 -RRB- . . Cambridge ; New York ; Melbourne : Cambridge University Press . p. 358 Olson , M. -LRB- 2000 -RRB- . . New York : Basic Books . p. 64 	Dictatorships can prevent social unrest
Dictatorships are superior to democracies in that they can make decisions and implement policies quicker . They can easily modify institutional and legal frameworks towards development goals , as there is no need for a political consensus behind their actions . This also insulates government from special interests that must be reconciled with in democracies . This allows dictatorships to create a pro-investment legal , economic and institutional framework such as low taxes , exchange rate manipulations and import tariffs , without facing political opposition . For example , fracking , a technique used to extract hard to obtain gas , has generated widespread opposition in the West , leading to it being banned in France . An autocratic government would find it easier to allow cheap access to this energy , boosting industry , as it could disregard this opposition . Dictatorships can also control resources to allow for better health and education services , by determining curricula , salaries and supplies . Cuba has one of the best healthcare systems in the world , with more doctors per capita than much of the Western world , and in 2009 Shanghai came first in the PISA test . Castelvecchi , Davide , France becomes first country to ban extraction of natural gas by fracking , , 30 June 2011 , The Economist , Reshoring manufacturing : Coming Home , 19 January 2013 , Brouwer , Steve , The Cuban Revolutionary Doctor : The Ultimate Weapon of Solidarity , , Vol .60 No . 8 , January 2009 , 	Dictatorships are more effective than democracies at mobilizing resources for investment .
Due to the lack of rotation in office , a dictatorship allows for a more stable government with more ability to plan for the long term , which is crucial for attracting foreign investment . Given that a democracy requires regular elections , each election can change the economic environment of a country . A change in government may lead to a switch in policies , partisan appointments to government bodies , and a medium term focus always set on the next election . Close elections can lead to disorder as votes are recounted and appeals lodged in the courts . After the 2006 Mexican presidential election , tight results lead to popular unrest and mass protests calling for a recount . The president elect had to deal with a large legislative faction that did not recognise him , and his opponent refused to concede defeat . Without a stable framework , the lack of foreign confidence may impede development . The countries that have developed rapidly have tended to be those that have managed to attract this foreign direct investment thus in 2012 China managed to get $ 243 billion of FDI -LRB- 18 % of the total -RRB- against only $ 175 billion for the United States which is still a much bigger economy . Additionally the resources needed to operate a democratic society and run elections are a large expense for the state and society as a whole ; the US presidential election costs $ 6bn , money which would be much better spent investing in building infrastructure or businesses . See for example the case of Mexicos 2006 elections . Mass protest over Mexico election , , 9 July 2006 , Fracas mars Mexico inauguration , , 2 December 2006 , OECD , FDI in Figures , April 2013 , Hebblethwaite , Cordelia , US election : How can it cost $ 6bn ? , , 2 August 2012 , 	Dictatorships assure low cost political stability
Because the artist made the music , it is their property , in this case intellectual property . Property means that the owner/artist has the right to ask something from you in exchange for you gaining access to the music . This may be money . It may also be the requirement that you clearly recognize the artists moral right to always be mentioned as the creator of that music . This is called the free exchange of value , and this is the most fundamental relationship in our free market economy . Whatever the artist chooses as payment through a legal transaction , it is his/her basic right to ask this of you . The only way to make sure that he/she can actually exercise that right is by making sure you only take music from the artist through a legal transaction , i.e . with their permission . Only then can we be sure that the desired free exchange of value has taken place 	A legal transaction is the only way to achieve free exchange of value
Theft is taking something from someone who is the rightful owner without their permission . It doesnt matter if the rightful owner keeps an original version or not . If you are downloading music from an unofficial source , you are stealing it : The only way you can get the right to listen to that song is via a legal transaction from which the rights owner can make a profit 	Theft is an assumption of property rights
Although the regime in Pyongyang has expressed an interest in a reunified country , progress has been painfully slow . It took twelve years to get from initial contact to the first meeting . It seems likely that any suggestion of reunification is more a negotiating ploy than emblematic of any serious commitment . If reunification is to be achieved , it will happen in spite of the current leadership in the North rather than because of it . The continued separation of the two Koreas is , in many ways , an accident of history . They were only divided in 1945 for administrative convenience . If the Soviet and American leaderships had been able to develop a more sensible agreement then the two would never have been separated in the first place . This means that for the sake of administrative convenience sixty years ago , four thousand years of history has been torn apart . From the perspective of Korean culture and the Confucian beliefs that underpin it the nations should be reunited . It is clearly in the interests of the citizens in the North , whether they are aware of the fact or not . It is an idea that speaks to natural justice but is obstructed by the fact that one half of the country is run as the private fiefdom of one family . The only realistic way it will happen is through military intervention to compel the North and remove Kim Jong-Un and his cronies . 	Kim Jong Un is unlikely to consent to any form of unified government that does not include him and his family
North Korea is virtually the definition of a rogue state . It remains technically at war with the South and frequently this manifests itself in acts of aggression . In any other situation the regime bombing of Yeonpyeong island would have been considered an act of war and met with a military response . The regimes relentless pursuit of nuclear weaponry poses a very real threat . The regime has tested missiles at least capable of reaching Tokyo and Seoul and has indicated a desire to be able to reach Washington , James Cartwright , vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff is worried that they will be able to hit the west coast within a few years . It seems reasonable to assume that , with the limited resources of the state being spent on these two goals , rather than feeding the people , the regime will ultimately succeed in their ambitions . Waiting until they can actually bomb North America or Europe would make Kim Jong-Un or his successor far too secure . Although it seems unlikely that he would ever mount an attack with conventional weapons , access to an appropriate delivery system and a nuclear warhead would make his removal by military means virtually impossible . Removing him from office before this happens is essential for the security of the region and the world . 	North Korea represents a clear danger to its neighbours and their allies and that is unlikely to change
There is grinding poverty in the North as well as brutal repression and all the other trapping of a military dictatorship . The only alternative future for the North is of a failed state going economically and socially in the opposite direction from the rest of Eastern Asia but now armed with nuclear weapons . The security threat this poses to the region is terrifying . However , it seems unlikely that the regime has any intention of surrendering their absolute power and the people are unlikely to remove him however bad things get , North Koreans do not have access to the tools such as mobile phones and the internet that made the Arab Spring possible . Instead the people will continue to be fed a diet of propaganda and not much else . As well as the security implications there is a simple issue of morality , in any other situation where the actions of a government were impoverishing a people to , quite literally , the point of starvation , the world would feel moved to act . It is as clearly in the interests of North Koreans not to starve to death by the hundreds of thousands as it is in the interests of the South not to see similar numbers irradiated by a bomb on Seoul . 	Despite the tyranny of Kim Jong-Un , the control he exercises over his people has eliminated the possibility of revolution
Like abortion , euthanasia , cloning and genetic engineering , suicide undermines the sanctity and inviolability of the human body . It is legitimate to legislate against such actions because the sanctity of the human body is an intrinsic constituent part of the respect for human dignity , which is the sine qua non of social life in any country . 	Suicide undermines the sanctity of the human body
Individual action is shaped by what norms and standards are set by society . By prohibiting suicide , society sends out a message that it is not an acceptable action . Legislation is a useful social tool , in that it proscribes the limits of individual action . And by failing to prohibit suicide , society fails to add the ultimate sanction of its laws into the balance of any decision whether or not to commit suicide . Many of those who have tried and failed to commit suicide never attempt it again . This suggests that many who kill themselves do so because of their particular short-term circumstances , perhaps while ill , suffering financial problems or under emotional stress , rather than through a considered and rational decision . More than 30 % of suicides are precipitated by intimate partner problems , more than 10 % by jobs problems and 10 % by financial problems . Given this , even a small deterrent will help to save many lives that are currently wasted needlessly . 	Prohibiting suicide sends the message that it is not an acceptable behaviour
Suicide is an entirely selfish act that causes immense pain and suffering for those loved ones that are left behind . It is also cowardly ; rather than facing your problems and being strong , you instead take the easy way out and kill yourself . It is important , therefore , to instil a strong sense of responsibility to ones family and for ones affairs and to do this by punishing those who try and fail to perpetrate this selfish and cowardly act . 	Suicide is a selfish act that causes suffering to others
Suicide is a waste of life . It is an immoral act that ignores the sacrosanct nature of human life something that is universally considered to be the case as shown by being something nearly all religions consider to be the case . Failure to criminalize such a flagrant violation of the sanctity of human life condemns any society as irreligious and immoral . Nowadays we hear everyone talking about human rights ; we hear precious little about human obligations . If we believe in the moral worth of human rights we do so because we think that human life is a wonderful thing and something with which we should not interfere . Whether the interference is by others or by ourselves , any action that denigrates human life is morally wrong for precisely the reason that we support human rights . We have an obligation to preserve all life , including our own . 	Suicide is a waste of life
Mineral extraction is not a clean process and the Arctic is acknowledged as a fragile ecosystem . In addition to the pollution that using these fuels will cause elsewhere in the world , the process of extraction itself is fraught with risks . There is some destruction caused simply by the process of building and running rigs with everything running normally , but the nightmare scenario is a major spill . Lets be clear , with the best will in the world , there will be a spill ; difficult and unpredictable conditions , gruelling tests for both the machinery and the engineers that manage it , and a track record that leaves a lot to be desired in far more habitable and accessible environments . There are two difficulties posed in terms of an off-shore -LRB- or below-ice in this case -RRB- spill . The first problem is that stopping the spill would be vastly more complicated logistically than anything previously attempted , making previous deep-sea containment exercises seem simple by comparison . The Exxon Valdez disaster showed the large scale damage that oil spills near the poles can have large and long lasting effects on the ecosystem ; hundreds of thousands of seabirds were killed in the spill and it is estimates some habitats will take 30 years to recover . Any such disaster is made much worse above the arctic circle because of the cold . Oil degrades faster in warmer waters because the metabolism of microbes that break the oil down works much more slowly in the cold arctic waters , at the same time the oil spreads out less so provides less surface area . In 2010 it was reported that more than two decades after the spill there were still 23,000 gallons of relatively un-weathered oil in Prince William Sound . The second issue , as demonstrated by large scale experimentation in the 1970s is that the oil would interact with the Polar ice to affect a far larger area than would normally be the case . At the very least , it seems sensible to have a moratorium on sub-glacial drilling until the technology is available to deal safely and securely with a spill . Vidal , John , Why an oil spill in Arctic waters would be devastating , The Guardian , 22 April 2011 , Williamson , David , Exxon Valdez oil spill impacts lasting far longer than expected , scientists say , , 18 December 2003 , no . 648 , Atlas , Ronald M. , et al . , Microbes & Oil Spills FAQ , , 22 April 2013 , National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration , Intent to Prepare a Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement on the Exxon Valdez Oil Spill Trustee Councils Restoration Efforts , , Vol .75 . , No . 14 , 22 January 2010 , p. 3707 	The Arctic is a diverse but fragile ecosystem
As we are using the resources of so much of the planet we should think about our legacy to future generations and leave the resources of the arctic to future generations . There are several reasons why we should do so . First of all drilling in the arctic means drilling in some of the harshest conditions on earth ; with many of the projects being set up it means drilling in deep areas of the ocean that were inaccessible only a couple of decades ago . It also means drilling in freezing conditions while being potentially vulnerable to icebergs . Disasters like the Deepwater Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico have shown that oil companies are not prepared for oil disasters in deep water and repair would be more difficult a long way from civilization . While the technology for this does not yet exist in future it probably will . It makes sense that we should leave such hard to reach resources until it is possible to extract it easily and safely . In the mean time we should be focusing our efforts on easier to reach resources and on developing alternatives . Such a policy will be beneficial to future generations both through making a greener economy and by leaving an emergency reserve of fossil fuel that can be used if necessary . Lawless , Jill , Tony Hayward : BP Was Unprepared For Gulf Oil Spill , ` We Were Making It Up Day To Day ' , , 9 November 2010 , 	The Arctic should be saved for future generations
The opening up of the arctic Ocean through climate change also opens up territorial claims as where there are resources at stake states are keen to make a claim so as to exploit them . For example in 2008 Russias then President Medvedev stated Our first and fundamental task is to turn the Arctic into a resource base for Russia in the 21st century . Such competition for resources can lead to conflict as is increasingly being shown in the East and South China Seas . The Antarctic Treaty however freezes these territorial claims , as would our proposed treaty . It also bans military activity so preventing any completion from getting out of hand . The proposal would also ban the exploitation of the Arctics resources so reducing the cause of any conflict . Keating , Joshua , Medvedev makes a play for Arctic riches , , 17 September 2008 , The Antarctic Treaty , , 2011 , 	A treaty similar to the Antarctic Treaty would prevent competition
Its in the interests of employers . A long , incurable and debilitating condition has stricken one of their employees . They will have to make provision for possible sickness cover and replacement workers , potentially for medical and/or retirement costs . HIV can make people tired and can lead to being sick more often as it means the immune system will not be able to fight off infections as well as it normally would . The employees productivity might be reduced to the point at which their continued employment is no longer viable . If things are made difficult for employers with HIV positive workers , then they are less likely in the future to employ people who -LRB- they suspect -RRB- are HIV positive . Employers must be listened to in this debate in many HIV-stricken countries , theyre the last thing between a semi-functioning society and complete economic and social collapse . Traditional rights ideas such as concerns about privacy of medical records are less important than the benefit to society of being able to cope with the unique problem of HIV more effectively . 	Its in the interests of employers
Businesses ought to take a responsible and active position on HIV . The issue isnt going to go away . Successful programs designed to help HIV-positive employees remain in the workplace for as long as they want to do so should be developed . Procedures for treating personnel with fairness and dignity must be put in place . The potential fears and prejudices of other employees must be combated . The beginning of that process is ensuring they know about the problem and , crucially , the scale of it . Without knowledge of the numbers involved , employers may put in place inadequate medical and pensions arrangements that will ultimately prove inadequate . 	Tackling HIV requires a responsible and active position by everyone
Its in the interests of the HIV positive employee . Right now , although in many countries it is illegal to fire someone for having HIV prejudiced employers can claim that they didnt know their employer had HIV when they fired him , so they must have been acting on other grounds . The employee then has to try and prove that they did know , which can be very hard . Furthermore , once informed the employer can reasonably be expected to display a minimum level of understanding and compassion to the employee . 	Its in the interests of employees
Its in the interests of other workers . The possibility of transmission , while very unlikely , is real and one they have a right to know about so as to be able to guard against it . While most of the time it will not be problem as transmission requires a transfer of bodily fluids this may occasionally happen in a workplace . This is particularly true of healthworkers -LRB- e.g . doctors , nurses , dentists , midwives , paramedics , etc -RRB- who should have both a moral and a legal obligation to disclose if they are HIV-positive . Even outside the medical field industrial accidents may expose employees to risk . Employers have a duty to protect their workforce . 	Its in the interests of co-workers
A graduate tax would be fairer for everyone in society . Graduates earn considerably more than non-graduates , on average over 100,000 more in a lifetime -LRB- Channel 4 News , 2010 . -RRB- , experience lower rates of unemployment and greater job security , they therefore benefit hugely from higher education . They should therefore be expected to pay for the privilege of having an education which has put them in that position rather than having the rest of society fund there degrees , going to university should be an honor and not a privilege . While having a degree is useful it is not necessary for getting on with life , if someone wants to go to university they should have that opportunity regardless of their background but they should be expected to contribute to that education which is why the graduate tax works as students of all social classes can join university , not be loaded with debt and can contribute fiscally when viable . 	A graduate tax would make access to higher education fairer and more equitable
A graduate tax is the best way to increase access to higher education without massively burdening the government with an open-ended financial commitment . It is not a deterrent to the poorer students in the way fees and loans-based schemes are and which simply appear to block access , yet it still delivers sufficient extra capital to fund the increase of students entering university . Australias introduction of a graduate tax has been successful enough to allow university places to grow rapidly following its introduction with participation from both high and low income groups increasing by approximately one third . -LRB- Chapman , B . 1997 -RRB- . Therefore , a graduate tax removes the expensive barriers to entry that had previously kept out low-income groups , whilst not discouraging the high-income groups from tertiary education . 	Delivering funding via a graduate tax is the best way to encourage more students to enter higher education
A graduate tax would potentially give universities more than they get from traditional funding , as a contribution would depend directly on a persons salary rather than just being a flat rate fare for services rendered over a short time . For example a person earning 40,000 would pay about 125 per month . -LRB- Shepard , J . 2009 -RRB- That over 20 years could amount to 30,000 , more than enough to cover the costs of a university education in a way which is manageable . Admittedly that sum is based on a person rising like a rocket but it still hints at the possibilities of the tax and how it could bring in more money than simply universities rising their fees . Secondly , it would change as a persons salary rises or falls over a twenty year period , being more sustainable and increasing the chance of the costs being recovered . Thirdly , rather than giving a person a required fee to pay it would be giving a person a chance to pay over a set time period , reducing the financial impact of the bill . 	A graduate tax would make university funding more sustainable
Amnesty is the only way to deal with the fundamental problem behind immigration ; the developed world much richer and has more jobs available than the developing world . For example the USA has a per capita GDP of $ 48,100 by comparison Mexicos is only $ 15,100 using PPP the gap with the Central American countries to the south of Mexico is even starker with Guatemalan GDP/capita at $ 5,000 . Not surprisingly the USA far outstrips the Central American countries in the Human development index ; the US is 4th , Mexico 57th and Guatemala 131st . So long as there is such diversity of income and opportunity immigrants will keep coming , and this will continue no matter what the state that is receiving migrants does in an attempt to deter them . Amnesties will help allow labour to get to where it is needed , through NAFTA the US is integrating North America but it is specifically excluding labour from this integration while tightening border controls at the Mexican border . Amnesties would help to counter-act the problems caused by leaving labour as the resource that is not allowed to cross borders and so provide benefits to both the host economy and the country of origin for the migrants . This is because the migrants will send back remittances that will help to develop their home nation and they themselves may well return after developing new skills that can then be put to use at home . 	Amnesties are the only long term solution
Much of the rich world is aging , and in a few cases is close to having a declining population . As a result the size of the available workforce will decrease . For example in Germany by 2050 a third of the population will be over 60 , and over the next 15 years will as a result loose five million workers from the current workforce of 41 million . While increasing retirement age can mean that these reductions in the size of the workforce come later to maintain the size of the workforce immigration or a rapid increase in birth rate is necessary . These countries in order to maintain the size of their economies will therefore either have to rapidly increase productivity , which itself may not be easy as they are already the most productive nations , or else allow migrants to fill the gaps in the labour force . At the same time there will be an increase in some jobs that rely on migrants such as care workers to help look after the increasing number of elderly . 	Immigrants are needed to make up for aging populations
With an international regulatory body , states would be held accountable for protecting migrant rights , and migrant policies and protections would be better coordinated . The international community has created a number of regulatory bodies that have helped the global economy adapt to rising globalization , such as the World Trade Organization , the World Bank , and the International Monetary Fund . Migration is an essential part of globalization , but there is no international body regulating the flow of workers around the world . Jason Deparle of the New York Times writes , The most personal and perilous form of movement is the most unregulated . States make -LRB- and often ignore -RRB- their own rules , deciding who can come , how long they stay , and what rights they enjoy . '' Because migrant rights are a growing problem and an essential part of globalization , an international regulatory body would be an effective way of improving human rights around the world . Deparle , `` Global Migration . 	An international regulatory body should exist for global migration .
Migrants face a number of challenges when they reach their destination , such as finding housing and in integrating into the workforce , and the opportunities to exploit them can be dangerous . According to Dr Tasneem Siddiqui , `` In 1929 , the International Labour Organisation -LRB- ILO -RRB- identified the migrant workers as the most vulnerable group in the world . Seventy years have elapsed since then , but they still belong to that group . '' This is something that the U.N. Convention attempts to address creating specific changes in many countries that would make migrants less vulnerable . For example , in all of the Gulf States , migrants are prohibited or at least restricted from participation in independent trade union activities . Protecting the right to unionize , as the U.N. Convention does with Article 40 -LRB- 1 -RRB- , allows migrants to fight for their own rights in the workplace , allowing migrants to fight and ensure their own rights is the best way to ensure that they will be protected in the long-term . Migrants have the same fundamental rights as any other segment of the population as recognised by all states when they signed the universal declaration of human rights . Yet while migrants often initially migrate due to the dream of a better life they often find themselves in terrible living conditions , even in developed countries like Britain they often end up in what are essentially shanty towns , in London for example even if they manage to stay off the streets many new immigrants are housed in sheds and garages . All governments should recognise their responsibility to ensure the minimum rights of migrants when it comes to shelter , education , and health are protected . , Ratify UN convention on migrant workers rights , May 3 , 2009 , . , Saudi Arabia/GCC States . Rogers , Chris , The illegal immigrants desperate to escape squalor of Britain , , 28 February 2012 , 	Economic and social protections prevent the exploitation of migrants .
The right to family is widely recognized as an essential human right . Article 16 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights says that the family is the fundamental unit of society . Within the right to family is the right to family reunification for migrants who are separated from their loved ones . The Human Rights Education Associates argue , states are obliged to facilitate contacts and deal with requests to enter or leave a state party for the purpose of reunification in a humane and expeditious manner This right is especially important for refugees , who have often been torn from their familiesby force , and although they have not been separated by force economic migrants are also separated from their families and at the very least should be able to visit their families , and it is not granted by many countries . Asmita Naik The Right to Family , , Accessed June 30 , 2011 , . 	Migrants ought to have a right to family reunification .
Economic protections are not only good for the migrants themselves , but they benefit all countries involved . Migrants move from countries that have a lot of workers but not a lot work available , to countries with a lot of work available , but not enough workers . Migration is a market mechanism , and it is perhaps the most important aspect of globalization . The growth of the worlds great economies has relied throughout the architect of the Apollo program Wernher von Braun immigrated from Germany and Alexander Graham Bell the inventor of the telephone was born in Scotland . More recently immigration has been instrumental in the success of Silicon Valley co-founder of Google Sergey Brin is Russian born while the co-founder of Yahoo Jerry Yang came from Taiwan . The new perspective brought by migrants leads to new breakthroughs , which are some of the most important benefits to receiving countries from migration . The exploitation of migrant workers that exists in the status quo creates tensions and prejudices that hamper this essential creative ability of migrants in the workplace . Source countries are equally aided by migration . Able workers who would be unemployed in their home land are able to work in a new country , and then send moneyremittancesback to their families . Migrants sent home $ 317 billion in remittances in 2009 , which is three times the worlds total foreign aid , and in at least seven countries this money accounted for more than a quarter of the gross domestic product . One of the important goals of migrant rights is to protect these remittances , and thus to protect the economies of source countries that require them to survive . Irene Khan shows that migrant protections are important for everybody involved : `` When business exploits irregular migrants , it distorts the economy , creates social tensions , feeds racial prejudice and impedes prospects for regular migration . Protecting the rights of migrant workers -- regular and irregular -- makes good economic and political sense for all countries -- whether source , destination or transit . '' Both sides are likely to benefit more if migrants are welcomed and allowed to join the formal economy ; they will be better able to work , they will pay taxes and national insurance to the host country and they themselves will be more secure so will be able to send more home . This benefit to the source state could be even greater if the benefits from paying national insurance were made portable and continue to be paid when they return . Marcus Wohlson , Immigration chief seeks to reassure Silicon Valley , , 22 February 2012 , , , . , . 	Protections would benefit the economies of receiving as well as source countries .
Unless migrants receive equal social and economic rights , they will never be seen as equal in a human sense . According to Article 13 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights , everyone has the right to leave or enter a country , as well as to move within it -LRB- internal migration -RRB- . This freedom of movement is often not granted under current laws . Human rights also include fair treatment under the welfare state , and increased economic protections for migrants is necessary in many states for them to receive such treatment . Without this equal treatment , common myths about migrants will continue to be widely believed . These myths claim that immigrants are criminals and that they steal jobs from natives . The organization Migrant Rights says , All these myths rob migrant workers and refugees of their humanity , and are aimed at portraying them as less deserving of our sympathy and help . It is a violation of migrants human rights to be treated this way , and they will only be seen as equals when they are granted economic protection that allows them to work alongside natives . , , accessed June 30 , 2011 , . 	Further protections are required to grant migrants full human rights .
Scholars , commentators and satirists have pointed out the hypocrisy of current US strategy in the Islamic world . They have also pointed out that the only rational response to overwhelming American military superiority in terms of hardware is the kind of warfare being undertaken by insurgents from Bagdad to Kabul . None of them are in prison . Mainstream politicians have called for an immediate withdrawal of American troops and the claims emanating from the right of the Republican Party that doing so gives succour to Americas enemies now sounds as shrill as they do bizarre . Yet none of them are in prison . Ministers of God , political activists and intellectuals have raised the issue of the loss of life among civilians in the Muslim world and the questionable justification of those losses on the grounds of national security . And yet they remain at liberty . Americas allies around the world have questioned the continued presence of US troops in the region and , in many cases , withdrawn their own - andif removing troops from the fight is not aiding the enemy , it would be difficult to imagine what might be . Despite this , leaders of these nations are honoured guests when they visit the Whitehouse . There may well be those on the American Right who would happily imprison all of these groups but the reality is that they remain at large . For the sake of consistency , if nothing else , Tarek Mehanna should join them . 	This is no different than political comment , etc .
Nobody is suggesting that Mehanna planted a bomb or even attempted to . His crime , if it deserves such a word is to hold an opinion and to have expressed it . That opinion was that current American military policy in the Muslim world is wrong and to suggest that those living there should be opposition to the major powers of the age attempting to impose their will , through force of arms , on a people in a different country . Such an opinion is not only shared by many if not a majority of commentators in the West but could easily have been voiced by Washington , Jefferson or Adams . There are two fundamental differences between Mehanna and the Founding Fathers : firstly they went further and called for violent opposition , secondly they were wealthy and white . It may be tempting to argue , But wait , they were also Americans no they werent they were subjects of the British Crown . One might be tempted to argue that they were born in North America , fine but Mehanna is a faithful son of Islam like Washington , simply defending his birth right . Rather than recognising the similarities a court , sitting not that far from Concorde , site of the first battle of the American Revolutionary War , decided to tear up the Declaration of Independence , or at least its spirit and imprison a young man for the ideas in his head . Although the analogy with Americas fight for independence from Britain may seem far-fetched , it provided the core of at his sentencing hearing although , apparently , too little affect . To take one example , heres a review of American Insurgents , American Patriots . . Mehanna , Tarek , Tareks powerful sentencing statement , 12 April 2012 , 	One mans freedom fighter is anothers terrorist .
Few would-be sperm or egg donors wish to be known to any children resulting from their donation . Removing anonymity is therefore a major deterrent , especially as in most countries little money is paid for sperm donations -LRB- more is paid for eggs because the procedure is much more intrusive and unpleasant for a female donor -RRB- . It was widely predicted that removing anonymity in the UK would result in a fall in donations , and this has in fact happened for both eggs and sperm despite government claims that sperm donors have increased , the number of actual donations has crucially gone down . As the Times reports , the number of women treated with donated sperm fell by 20 per cent in the first year anonymity was lifted , reflecting the reduced number of sperm donations . Egg treatments are similarly down , by 40 % , a catastrophic drop according to a British Member of Parliament . If the donor name were to appear on the actual birth certificate of any child , it is obvious that even fewer people will be prepared to donate . Given the desperation of infertile couples seeking assistance with conception , and the long waiting lists for both eggs and sperm , the predictable consequence of this policy is both lamentable and cruel . 1 . Henderson , 2008 	Removing donor anonymity will deter potential donors , for they do not want their identities disclosed .
The concept of parenthood in the context of donor-assisted conception is complicated . Is someone who donated an egg or some sperm really a parent ? Should n't parent mean the one who cared for you as a baby , got up in the night for you , saw you through teething and childhood illnesses , and worked hard to give you food , shelter and the best life they were able to provide ? In the case of children seeking the mother who gave them up for adoption , this is permissible specifically because of the relationship built up during pregnancy and birth . In the case of sperm donors , ` whether for money or out of altruism , the father has gone into a cubicle and masturbated into a container . There is a difference ' . As such , given that donors never actually meet or speak to the real parents or the actual children , the situation is not at all like adoption or even surrogacy . It is more like blood donation , and therefore gives the recipient no rights over the donor . 	Sperm and egg donors are not true parents , therefore children have no right to know who they are
Sperm and egg donors have a right to remain anonymous . Having gone out of their way to provide a means for a couple to have the child they otherwise could not have had , they deserve their wishes to be respected in return . The unveiling of their identity and , likely , contact from the child would cause psychological harm at least equal to that of the offspring . There should be no hierarchy regarding whose rights are more important , disclosure should only be permitted if both parties are happy to do so . In the United States , for example , when signing up with donor banks , donors are able to ` make it clear ' they do n't want to be found by signing a waiver of anonymity . If donors wish to sign that form and retain their privacy , that right should not be taken from them , regardless of the child 's wishes . Donors should be entitled to move on with their lives and not fear being tracked by offspring they neither asked for , nor wanted . 	Sperm and egg donors have the right to ask that their identity is concealed
Because lifting anonymity makes it so much more difficult to conceive a child through the government 's regulated health care system , desperate couples will be driven to look for alternatives . Estimates suggest that , in the UK where anonymity has been lifted , one in seven couples have fertility problems . However , with long waits for donors expected after the policy change , many are increasingly turning to riskier , unregulated options . Women will be tempted to seek sperm informally from male friends -LRB- the Do-It-Yourself `` turkey baster '' approach -RRB- , which can cause frictions among friendship groups . Couples will also go abroad as `` fertility tourists '' , seeking eggs and sperm in countries where donors can still remain anonymous . Such consequences are clearly bad for everyone , being unregulated , often emotionally messy , and possibly even dangerous . The evidence from Sweden also suggests that it is now much less likely that parents will be honest with their children about their origins , defeating the whole point of the policy . 	Couples will be forced to look overseas or try unregulated methods , with dangerous consequences
To some the idea of a national story may be an anachronism but history is one of the things that bind a country together . As Benedict Anderson argues nations are imagined communities as members of that nation will never know most of the members of that community or even hear about them but despite this there is conceived to be a comradeship between its members . The creation of a national story from the history of the nation that helps create that common unit . French historian Ernest Renan went so far as to argue that Getting its history wrong is part of being a nation . South Korean President Lee Myung-bak himself has argued A textbook of modern history should be written in a way that does not hurt our national pride , when criticising a South Korean textbooks interpretation of the dividing of Korea . If this is the case it is difficult to see how there can be any objection to Japan using the same principle . Anderson , Benedict , , Verso , 17 November 2006 , pp.6-7 Renan , Ernest , quoted in Eric Hobsbawm , Nations and Nationalism since 1780 , , Sang-Hun , Choe , Textbooks on Past Offend South Koreas Conservatives , , 17 November 2008 , 	Nations should be allowed an official story
History is not about learning all history , it is not about learning particular bits of history , it is not even necessarily about learning a nations story , rather it is about encouraging students to think critically . It has been regularly shown that stuffing children with facts turns them off a subject instead there should be interaction , discussion , analysing texts from the time and analysing bias . The space in the textbook devoted to the issues is very limited and therefore what they mention does not matter particularly much . What matters therefore is how the teachers teach the issues as they will have to supplement the textbooks with other works and there is a wide range to choose from . What matters then is how the teachers expand on the issues within the textbook rather than the textbook itself the textbook could even be useful at studying the subject by providing a source to study bias on WWII . Savich , Carl , Improving Critical Thinking in History , , Vol .11 , Issue 2 , Fall 2009 , p. 2 , Inkerd , Wes , The Japanese History Textbook issue , Education in Japan community blog , accessed 20 August 2012 	The goal is to encourage students to think
Currently CAP costs the European Union approx . 40 % of its whole budget . However , this money is used to provide subsidies for industry that only employs less than 5 % of workforce and creates less than 2 % of GDP . We can easily assume that nearly half of EUs budget can be used more effectively and can , instead , be used to support other , more potential industries which can boost the currently sluggish economic growth . Moreover , the subsidies for European farmers are so high they can contribute up to 90 % of farmers pre-tax income . No other industry has such privileges when European coal and iron industry became uncompetitive and needed to be slimmed down , the European union did not subsidise the industry to such degree even though such action could have saved thousands of jobs . Charlemagne , Milking the budget , , 22 November 2012 , The Economist , Europes farm follies , 8 December 2005 , 	CAP is costly and unfair to other industries
The CAP as originally proposed was aimed to support small , local , family farmers which have difficulties with sustaining their business in competitive environment . The conference in Stresa in 1958 that helped define CAPs objectives stated Given the importance of family structures in European agriculture all means should be taken in order to strengthen the economic and competitive capacity of the family enterprise . However , the current model of CAP gives direct payments to farmers according to area of their farms . That means that the major recipients of CAP are actually the biggest players in agricultural industry . According to Economist , 80 % of the subsidies go to 20 % of the richest farmers . Therefore , the money is spent to support large companies and wealthy landowners who could easily compete in EU market even without such abhorrent support from EU taxpayers . Knudsen , Ann-Christina , Romanticising Europe ? Rural Images in European Union Policies , , no . 12 , 2005 , p. 52 The Economist , Europes farm follies , 8 December 2005 , 	It doesnt serve its purpose ( subsidies to larger farmers )
The current model of CAP results in major oversupply of food and beverages . In 2008 the stockpiles of cereals rising to 717 810 tons while the surplus of wine was about 2.3 million hectolitres . This excess of supply is then often sold to developing countries for prices so low that the local producers can not cope with them . The low prices of European food can be attributed to the higher efficiency of producing food because of use of advanced technologies as well as the CAP . Agriculture makes a small fraction of GDP in Europe , but in developing countries of Africa or Asia it is entirely different with large numbers dependent on much smaller plots of land . Hence , the consequences of CAP and high production in the EU can be the rise of unemployment and decline of self-sufficiency of these affected countries . Castle , Stephen , EUs butter mountain is back , , 2 February 2009 , 	It harms the economies of developing world
Not only are the largest recipients of CAP western countries France , Spain and Germany - also the payments per hectare of arable lands differ significantly between new and old members of EU . The new members of EU with their economies often struggling and more dependent on agriculture -LRB- as is the case of Poland , Bulgaria or Romania -RRB- need more monetary support compared to their western counterparts to produce food of same quality and be competitive in EU market . However , the payments for hectare of land vary from 500 in Greece to less than 100 in Latvia . These different conditions undermine the EUs ethos of fairness and equality of countries . EurActive , Eastern EU states call for bolder , speedier farm reforms , 14 July 2011 , 	It is unfair to new members of EU
The U.S. is one of the only remaining Western Liberal democracies to allow the U.S. of cluster bombs . The continued refusal of the U.S. to tow the same line as fellow liberal democracies makes it look bad internationally ; especially considering that one of the main instigators behind the cluster bomb ban is the U.K. traditionally a great ally of the U.S. politically . The U.S. is often seen as the greatest representative of Western liberal democracy as it is the most economically powerful . Part of this political clout however , comes from the continued cooperation of other Western Liberal democracies with the U.S. in failing to the sign the cluster bomb treaty despite pressure from other countries , the U.S. fails in this capacity and loses the support of the countries that it relies on to maintain its political status . Moreover , given that the U.S. currently does not help with demining work , this further worsens relationships with other countries . 	Rejecting the Ban on Cluster Bombs Hurts the international image of the U.S .
In a modern warfare scenario , the vast majority of combat takes place in civilian areas , such as cities . Whilst cluster bombs are obviously not used for peacekeeping purposes they are used in initial assaults on these areas , particularly against larger formations of enemy troops . This means that due to the indiscriminate nature of cluster bombs , in the same way as with land mines , often both military and civilian targets are encompassed in the blast radius . This is what happened in Zagreb as Martic was targeting Croat forces but the attack due to the use of cluster weapons also killed civilians . Further , cluster bombs often have a few bomblets which are duds and do not go on initial impact . The issue with bomblets is that they are often brightly coloured and when used in cities or populous areas they can often attract the attention of children who are very unlikely to know to be careful around them . This can result in significant harm to civilian populations well after the attack has been carried out . Further , due to the sheer volume of duds that cluster bombs put out , attempts to demine cluster bomb bomblets is an incredibly dangerous process that in of itself costs lives . 	Cluster Bombs Cause Unacceptable Harm to Civilians
The international legal system is dependent on being robust and transparent in order for it to be respected by countries and states that accept it . The refusal by the U.S. to ban cluster bombs prevents the international community from doing the same within international law as the U.S. has enough political power that should it choose to ignore the law , the law itself is considered to be irrelevant . In failing to ban cluster bombs the U.S. maintains an inconsistency within international law . Since dud cluster bombs effectively act as land mines for all intents and purposes , they are well hidden and cause indiscriminate damage , the fact that they arent banned is inconsistent with existing bans on land mines already . This inconsistency within international law makes the international legal system seem less credible , owing to contradictions as well as illustrating its weakness to the influence of the U.S. . This makes it more difficult for countries to enforce the rules of the international legal system , such as preventing human rights violations because fewer countries will accept international law as being legitimate and will not agree to subject themselves to those rules . 	Cluster Bombs Are Inconsistent With International Law
An accepted tenet of most justice systems is the achievement of deterrence . Without the prosecution of war crime , its perpetrators have to consider no tangible cost to their actions . This applies to those who claim to have just followed orders , who now face a counter-motivation to refuse or defect . In the case of high-level war criminals it becomes effective when they realise they are losing a conflict . If they fear prosecution they are more likely to seek to negotiate rather than going on a final destruction spree . In the final days of the Nazi regime , Himmler stopped committing atrocities and attempted to negotiate peace because he realised his own vulnerability to prosecution . 	Justice needs to be seen to be done in order to provide a deterrent to others .
For post-conflict societies to function , the tensions and divisions of the conflict must be brought out into the open and dealt with in order to be fully put to rest . Those most responsible for war crimes must be brought to justice , those involved in the regime but less culpable must have opportunity to make amends and victims must feel that they have been compensated . This allows compromise and the potential for effective governance . The alternative is to allow undiscussed , simmering hatreds and resentments to persist , which undermine growth and create a risk of further conflict . 	Trials help bring divisions into the open to help heal them .
The intention of many crimes of war is to destroy and demoralise individuals and communities . As a result , they often cause on-going harm to victims who can not feel safe in their communities even after the conflict has ended . For victims , prosecuting war criminals has a vital cathartic function in helping them , to some extent , to come to terms with the crimes committed against them and their families . While full compensation is impossible , both the symbolic realisation of justice and the illustration of real commitment to prevention allows people to rebuild their lives to some extent . Failure to prosecute sends victims a message that the attacks on their freedoms were somehow acceptable . 	Prosecution provides closure for the victims of war crimes .
In the instances of small-scale crime we accept that if a community condemns a persons action , our sense of justice demands that they be punished . However , it is often the case that those who commit the most heinous crimes at the highest levels of responsibility are not prosecuted because of the complexities of the process . For example Slobodan Miloevi the former leader of Serbias trial took four years and he died before the verdict was given . According to ICTY Chief Prosecutor Carla Del Ponte The death of Slobodan Milosevic deprived victims of justice . As an international community we have repeatedly pledged to prevent war crimes , in recognition of the fact that they are beyond the scope of local courts . When they occur it is a collective failure to protect , so the responsibility to prosecute and make amends falls with the international community . An admission of our inability to prosecute war crime undermines the decades of work we have done to prevent them . 	War criminals need to be prosecuted in order to provide justice .
The removal of tax cuts for the rich will help create greater equality in the U.S. Firstly it can do this by direct means , taxing the rich to a greater extent than is currently done would mean , obviously that the rich have less money and are thus more equal to the poor in income . However , further to this , money gained from such tax cuts that is not being reserved for deficit reduction can be redistributed to the poor in order to allow them to progress further in society . Income inequality within the U.S. is significantly worse than in most other Western liberal democracies . It often leads to problems of the poor feeling disenfranchised within a society where they feel that the rich have all the influence . Poverty can lead to crime , motivated either by want and pure physical need , or by a distorted sense of entitlement fostered by consumer culture . A lack of parity in an economic system may be interpreted as justifying participation in crimes with an economic component , such as drug dealing , fraud or involvement with organised crime . 	Removing Tax Cuts for the Rich Promotes Equality .
Maintaining Bush tax cuts would cost the government $ 680 billion in revenue over the next ten years according to Paul Krugman . Given the downgrade in the U.S. credit rating by some credit agencies , it seems prudent to choose to roll back at least some of these cuts in order to please those agencies and convince them that the U.S. is taking serious action to tackle its debt . If this is the case , then they are likely to upgrade or maintain the U.S. credit rating . This is beneficial for the U.S. as it means that in the future it has smaller repayments to make on its current debt and can more readily take on debt in the future . Further , given that the rich spend a smaller percentage of their money than the poor on consumption , an increase in taxes for the rich will firstly not cause a significant downturn in consumption and secondly , if spent responsibly by the government , will lead to further growth in the future which might cause the government to be able to recoup the money that it spends through higher tax revenue from a growing economy in the future . 	Removing Tax Cuts Would Reduce the Deficit
The tax cuts that were created under a Republican government can be strongly linked with the Republican power base . The Republican party relies on a relatively small number of very rich and powerful donors . A tax cut for these people often leads to an increase in funding for the Republican party . Republican representation among the other classes generally comes from other conservative policies as opposed to one fiscal policy . Further , there is an attitude in the U.S. among many poorer communities that tax regardless of the actual purpose is a bad thing . As such , the Republicans can often reduce taxes for the wealthy without significantly harming their voting base among other communities , despite the fact that these changes often harm poorer communities a great deal . This means that implementation of the tax cuts was due to a political system that focuses on parties winning elections as opposed to doing what is best for America as a country . As such the system forces the Republicans to pander to the rich for funding and this leads to a worse situation for the country overall . Given that this is true , the tax cuts are unjust and should be removed . 	The Tax Cuts Only Exist Due to An Unjust System
Forming close ties with resource extraction firms and manufacturers is a popular development strategy for many poorer states , but it offers significant disadvantages in comparison to tourism . Not only does resource extraction , by its very nature , require states to consent to its territory sustaining pervasive and long-term environmental damage , it also tends to incentivise infrastructure projects that are only of use to the resource extraction industry . Roads can ferry medical supplies to communities as easily as they ferry tourists . An oil pipeline will only ever be useful for transporting oil . Tourists cash can be employed in efforts to reduce the negative externalities generated by leisure travel . Ecological damage resulting from increased volumes of air and sea traffic and the construction of hospitality facilities is frequently cited as a reason to limit the growth of the tourism industry in developing nations . Dependence on the industry for jobs and investment is seen as reducing the amount of control that developing states can exercise over potentially exploitative firms if a firm pulls out in response to assertive government action - taking jobs and money with it - that government will become unpopular . However , the more money that a state makes from tourism , the more money it has to invest in other sectors of its economy . By incentivising the development of alternative forms of business and employment , a state can feasibly release itself from dependence on the tourist trade . As profits from tourism grow , a state will become freer to dictate the terms on which tour operators , hotel owners and tourists themselves do business tourists money will have been used to create other sources of growth , investment and employment within that economy . Examples of this process in action can be found in the Bahamas , the Seychelles and South Africa . The minute Bahamian island of Bimini came under threat from a large scale development plan proposed , in part , by the Hilton Hotels group . Development of the island would have resulted in the destruction of mangroves and fish habitats , compromising the livelihood of the islands residents . Two decades earlier , the introduction of laws allowing minimally regulated and discrete incorporation of offshore business entities enabled the Bahamian economy to diversify into the field of financial services , reducing its dependence on tourism . Revenue from tourist activities had enabled the Bahamian state to fund the investment in infrastructure , services and expertise that underlay this process of reform . As a result of economic diversification , the government of the Bahamas was able to compel Hilton to restrict its activities . Reliable funding of state institutions and subsidy and welfare programmes used by the residents of Bimini , reduced demand for jobs supplied by the hotel group . 	Tourism is easier to regulate than manufacturing or resource extraction .
Landmines are a terrible and immoral tool of war . America should neither practise nor condone this kind of warfare . Unlike other weaponry , landmines remain hidden in the ground long after conflicts have ended , killing and maiming civilians in some of the worlds poorest countries years , even decades later . In Afghanistan 17 % of victims are children . Even if other weaponry has similar effects , it doesnt mean landmines are acceptable it means they are bad , too . But we must start somewhere we can make a difference by capitalising on the global movement against landmines , and we should . 	Banning Landmines is a step towards reducing the horror of war
It is absurd to suggest that landmines are the prime protector of US forces , or even an important one . It is well known that the principal benefit the USAs troops -LRB- as opposed to those of other nations -RRB- have in peacekeeping is the threat of the deployment of overwhelming force if they are defied . Landmines are nothing to do with it . US troops have not been pinned down in the way the opposition suggests since World War Two , except in Iraq : and there , as elsewhere , the damage done to relations with the civilian community would far outweigh any narrow military benefit garnered from landmine deployment . Indeed the use of landmines by the US has slowly been changing , since 2004 the US has only allowed the use of landmines with deactivation mechanisms however it has not actually used landmines in more than 20 years . 	The US army does not need landmines
The usefulness of landmines is significantly over-represented . They are easily removed by quite low-technology military equipment which means that they are not very dangerous to armed forces whose mobility is not significantly restricted , this is after-all the purpose of the mines , but are incredibly harmful to civilians . A significant problem is that many minefields have been left unmarked and that they can remain active for more than 50 years . Removing a landmine can be fairly easy , but detecting them is not . 	The difficulty of removing Landmines far outweighs their usefulness
Landmines provide a false sense of security . They are often purchased and placed by nations that are fearful of their surrounding neighbours , rather than entering into diplomatic arena to improve relations . They are the symbol of exactly the wrong approach to international affairs . Small , underdeveloped countries should channel their efforts into improving their economies they should not be encouraged -LRB- or frightened by scaremongering -RRB- by the USA into buying the USAs military equipment . 	Landmines provide a false sense of security
While the state may like to whitewash history to produce its own national history that sticks to one grand narrative that is about the state this is not history as it really is . While a national history full of patriotism may be good for instilling a love of the nation it is not much use at teaching anything else . In particular it is damaging to any attempt to teach analysis and the use of sources through history . History is for the most part not useful in and of itself , there are for example very few jobs directly working with history . Rather teaching of history emphasises transferrable skills such as Critical Analysis , Reasoning and Argument all of which are suppressed if focused on one officially approved narrative . Moreover having the darker side of a nations past both makes history more interesting and more believable and so making it more likely that those being taught it will relate to it . Making the past look whiter than white simply makes it seem out of touch with reality . It makes for a poor teacher as history needs to teach by example and if that example is not a complex character that can be related to it has little relation to every day experience . Stearns , Peter N. , Why Study History ? , , 1998 , What skills will a History degree from Cambridge give me ? , , Stearns , Peter N. , Why Study History ? , , 1998 , 	Makes history more useful , more human , and more interesting
No country is whiter than white , and often the creation of a country is a bloody event that involves mistakes , tragedys and outright massacres . While it is wrong to cover up and not apologise when mistakes are made or horrifying acts are committed the results of this action are likely to have consequences . These events may well be a sour point with neighbouring countries or even just those who feel that the country is not being honest about its past . Turkey is an excellent example of this . Almost everyone would agree that Atatrk was a great leader and most would not consider that his habits make any difference to this . Nor are they likely to judge Turkey on the basis of the foibles of a long dead leader . However during the period just before Atatrk became president the Armenian Genocide occurred -LRB- 1915-23 -RRB- which stains Turkeys foreign relations to this day , France has supported a law criminalising its denial , the US congress has several times had bills proposed highlighting the genocide and so damaging Turkeys relations with the U.S. and of course helping to freeze relations with Armenia itself . Montjoye , Clementine de , Frances Armenian genocide law , , 29 June 2012 , United States Senate , S.Res .399 - Affirmation of the United States Record on the Armenian Genocide Resolution , , 19 March 2012 , Kinzer , Stephen , Genocide vote harms US-Turkey ties , , 5 March 2010 , SAIR , CELL , Hopes dim for normalization of Turkish-Armenian relations , 7 May 2012 , 	Countries must be willing to accept the darker sides to their past
History is not something that it is worth sacrificing freedom of speech and expression for . Every individual should be free to voice their own views and this includes on areas that are important to the state such as its formation and national heros . In these areas there can be no compelling reason for keeping secrets or discouraging open inquiry and scholarship , there are no national security interests at stake , for most countries the individuals involved are dead . Therefore the only thing being affected are individuals posthumous reputations and the state should not be protecting individuals reputations . Someones reputation should stand on all of their deeds and acts based upon fact not just a cherry picked and idealised image set forth by the state . The foundation of Islam is potentially an example of this . Some scholars such as Tom Holland have attempted to show that the Arab Empire gave birth to Islam rather than the other way around as it is traditionally understood . Possible revisions of the early history of Islam are extremely controversial but in light of the conflicts in the Middle East and what is sometimes described as a Clash of Civilizations between the West and Islam it is important that the period be studied . Holland suggests that the Prophet may have been much more influenced by Christianity and Judaism than is recognised by Islam ; if there were such links might unearthing them not help to heal divides today ? Holland , Tom , , Little Brown , 2012 , p. 40 -LRB- ftnote 53 -RRB- Huntington , Samuel P. , , The Free Press 2002 , pp.209-218 Holland , p. 49 -LRB- ftnote74 -RRB- 	Prohibition of a subject damages discourse and free enquiry
Article 7 of the Ugandan constitution is clear in its separation of church and state Uganda shall not have a State religion . The government must serve all its people equally regardless religious and cultural orientation . But this bill has been created with a religious motive . In his interview defending the anti-gay bill , MP David Bahati lamented , that God doesnt accept homosexuality quoting a bible verse that the wages of sin is death -LSB- 1 -RSB- ; as if the Ugandan parliament is filled with righteous souls ! The constitution allows freedom of religion and prohibits the creation of political parties based on religion -LSB- 2 -RSB- . Laws and policies should therefore not base on bible verses as not everyone will share the same belief to such scriptures . -LSB- 1 -RSB- Jack Mirkinson , Rachel Maddow Interviews David Bahati , Author Of Ugandan ` Kill The Gays ' Bill , , -LSB- 2 -RSB- U.S. Department of State , Uganda , state.gov , 	Policy should not be dictated by religion
Chapter 4 of the Ugandan constitution recognises fundamental rights and freedoms of the individual as inherent and not granted by the State . The constitution states ; All persons are equal before and under the law in all spheres of political , economic , social and cultural life and in every other respect and shall enjoy equal protection of the law ; Without prejudice , a person shall not be discriminated against on the ground of sex , race , colour , ethnic origin , tribe , birth , creed or religion , or social or economic standing , political opinion or disability -LSB- 1 -RSB- . It defines discriminate '' as giving different treatment to different persons attributable only or mainly to their respective descriptions by sex , race , colour , ethnic origin , tribe , birth , creed or religion , or social or economic standing , political opinion or disability . The government has acted contrary to their own law , with President Museveni remarking that what homosexuals do is disgusting , un African and had no place in his country -LSB- 2 -RSB- and MP David Bahati , asserting that homosexuals do not deserve to be treated as humans . Breaching such a law while relying on such logical fallacies is a sign of how the government failed on human rights . -LSB- 1 -RSB- DREDF , The Constitution Of Uganda ; Chapter 4 , human rights and freedoms , dredf.org , -LSB- 2 -RSB- Mark Duell & Leon Watson , ` Gay people are unnatural and disgusting ' , says Ugandan president as he signs bill punishing homosexual sex with life in jail , dailymail.co.uk , 24 February 2014 , 	The law is contrary to the constitution
When any life is removed so too is the future good that life may produce ; all of the good that person would have experienced as well as all of the good they could have brought to other peoples lives will no longer occur . It is difficult to say precisely how much good a person may bring . However , it is fair to assume that saving five people brings with it a greater chance of higher levels of good . Considering the fact that one does not know anything about the people on the tracks one must assume that there will be five times more good produced by saving their lives than if the one person is saved . 	More good is produced by saving five lives than saving one
The philosopher John Rawls came up with a thought experiment to discover the right way to organize a society . When people talk about how society should be organized they generally take their own situation and interests into account . Rawls asked us to imagine a situation in which we do not know anything at all about our own lives and then try to organize society ? Without knowing anything about our wealth , intelligence , personality , race , gender , religion etc . , we would create the fairest society . This is because without knowing who we are we have no idea where we will be in society once it has been organized . So , in order to make sure we have the best chance to be treated fairly we create a society in which all people are treated fairly . The same experiment can be applied to the train problem . If we do not know anything about who we are in the experiment we would chose to kill the one person . This is because there is a greater chance of us being one of the five people and so killing the one person gives us the best chance to survive . 	Killing one person is the rational choice
There exists a basic right to life which , as humans , we try to follow . Killing others is outlawed because we generally believe that every person has the right to live their life and no one else has the right to take that life away . In the situation with the train there are two possible outcomes which both lead to life being cut short . Due to the fact that we place such value on life we have a duty to reduce the number of people who die . One ought to commit the act that results in the fewest deaths , and this is to kill the one and save the five . 	As humans we try to save as many people as possible
Typically it is less healthy products that are heavily discounted , such as alcohol and fatty , sugary and salty processed food . Heavily processed food should cost more than fresh food , but supermarkets do n't use fresh fruit or vegetables as loss leaders . The practice tends to distort the shopping behaviour of many of the poorest in society , pushing them into poor diets that lead to obesity , bad dental health and poor nutrition . Banning the practice would make it easier to encourage healthier diets and lifestyles . Selling alcohol below cost price leads to large social harms caused by alcoholism and binge-drinking . The use of alcohol as a loss leader has already been identified as a problem in some countries . In New Zealand , for example , Foodstuffs and Progressive Enterprisesthe two companies that own all of the major supermarket chains in the countryagreed not to use alcohol as a loss leader . Of course companies in most countries would not agree to such a promise without being prohibited by law , and even New Zealand should go a step further by prohibiting all loss leaders , as alcohol is not the only good that can cause social harm when it is artificially inexpensive . 	The use of loss leaders can have damaging social effects .
The practice of loss leaders is bad for suppliers . Farmers and manufacturers are often forced by the dominant retail giants to participate in discount schemes , sharing the losses at the dictate of the retailer . If they refuse they will be dropped by the retailer and cut off from the marketplace . The American Antitrust Institute has concluded that these `` Resale price maintenance -LRB- RPM -RRB- '' agreementswhich are agreed upon because retailers have all of the leverageare usually illegal . Prohibiting loss leaders will prevent this abuse of market dominance by the big retail companies and ensure a fair deal for our farmers . 	Banning loss leaders would help suppliers
Selling items at a loss is a predatory strategy used by large retailers to drive out smaller businesses , and so prohibiting them would protect competition . The practice is especially bad for small businesses , which can not compete with the massive retail firms behind huge hypermarkets . These dominant corporations have the deep pockets to make a short-term loss in order to increase the volume of their sales . The whole basis of this policy is to drive smaller firms that can not afford to offer loss leaders out of business . France has regulated its retail sector to prevent this kind of abuse of market dominance , in order to preserve its traditional shopping streets with family businesses . Other countries should follow the French example and ban loss leaders to protect small business and boost competition . 	The prohibition of loss leaders would promote competition in the market .
Loss leader strategies exploit consumers by providing partial , misleading information . Giant retailers are not charities ; they do not offer heavily discounted goods in order to help the poor . Instead they have calculated that they can attract price-conscious shoppers in with headline deals on a few loss-leading basics , and then persuade them to pay over the odds on a wider range of goods with big profit margins . In this way , loss leaders are a con trick on consumers who are bewildered by deliberately confusing marketingan onslaught of advertising and ever-changing promotions to the point that they are unable to compare the prices of rival firms and make a rational choice about where to shop . In their paper , Loss Leading as an Exploitative Practice , Zhijun Chen and Patrick Rey show how retailers use loss leaders to trick consumers by giving them incomplete information . And in the long term , by driving out smaller retailers and reducing competition in the retail sector , the practice can drive up the overall cost of essentials for everyone . 	Banning loss leaders protects consumers from predatory marketing tactics .
A ban of alcohol would have a great impact on the health of every individual . Alcohol and especially alcohol abuse are very common problems in todays society . Long lasting abuse of substances leads to many chronic diseases such as liver cirrhosis -LRB- damage to liver cells -RRB- ; pancreatitis -LRB- inflammation of the pancreas -RRB- ; various cancers , including liver , mouth , throat , larynx -LRB- the voice box -RRB- , and esophagus ; high blood pressure ; and psychological disorders . With a ban of alcohol we would very much lower the rates of consumption , as already current drug laws show . Even though drugs have a similar effect as alcohol , because of the risk of consequences when using those substances . Therefore in general the number of alcohol addiction would sink and cause also less of a financial health burden . According to the US alone , the economic cost of alcohol abuse in 1998 was 184.6 billion dollars . This is a burden which many state budgets have to bear . Therefore if this cost can be prevented , the lives of people improved -LRB- by not getting the chronic diseases -RRB- we should do so . Center for Disease Control and Prevention , Alcohol and Public Health , , accessed 08/17/2011 	Banning alcohol would lead to healthier individuals .
Alcohol is a mind altering drug , which can cause individuals to take actions they would have not done otherwise . This does not refer to loosened inhibitions , but also extends to harmful acts against themselves and others . Democracy is based on the principle that the majority of people are to elect leaders and trust them with a term , where their duty is solely to look after the wellbeing of the country and its citizens . The politicians , having the resources and time which they have to use , to get well equipped to make more informed decision on activities dangerous to the individual , others and the society . One of the principles in society therefore is that elected representatives have to make sure their citizens get the best possible protection in society . Even if this infringes on some of their rights . Alcohol for a long time has been kept because the government trusted the people ; they would make responsible decisions regarding alcohol . However , each year , the society loses , on a 30 year based average , more than 75,000 individuals to alcohol related diseases or accidents . Thus the citizens proved not to be responsible ; even though they had information available they did not make the choice that would keep them alive . The government has a duty to protect those irresponsible citizens , because otherwise they will not be able to contribute to society to the extent they could without alcohol . And because the government does not know who is the one that will make a stupid decision that will engender their lives in the long run , for the sake of few individuals , alcohol has to be banned for all . Therefore , because the government has been trusted with the duty to make informed decisions instead of the individuals and to protect the individual , it is right to allow them to ban alcohol if they believe it is very harmful . msnbc.com , Alcohol linked to 75,000 U.S. deaths a year , published 06/25/2005 , , accessed 08/13/2011 	Governments have the obligation to protect citizens from harmful substances
Alcohol is a contributory factor to a huge proportion of disputes and distress in society . It also contributes to the psychological problems of the alcohol consumer children . While the problem might not be connected to one individual in society , it is important that laws protect those , who might abuse their rights and with this hurt others . Currently in the US alone , there is an estimated 6.6 million children under 18 , which live in households with at least one alcoholic parent . It was never the fault of these children that others started to drink and harm them . According to psychological studies many of the children coming from alcohol abuse families have problems such as low self-esteem , loneliness , guilt , feelings of helplessness , fears of abandonment , and chronic depression . Children of alcoholics in some cases even feel responsible for the problems of the alcoholic and may think they created the problem . Alcohol is also a great contributor not only to psychological , but also to physical damage . Many times , alcohol is an easy excuse for domestic abusers . The incidence of domestic abuse in households , where there is alcohol abuse is a lot higher and the abusers name the effects of alcohol as their main cause of violence . With taking away alcohol we take away the fuel of many of the abusers , thus protecting third involved parties . Alcohol Information , Alcohol Statistics , , accessed 08/14/2011 	Banning alcohol protects third parties ( family members ) from harm .
Laws combating discrimination - such as the blasphemy law that the proposition side are advocating - promote social cohesion and stability , both important policy objectives in increasingly mobile and cosmopolitan societies . The United Nations General Assembly in 2006 argued defamation of religions is among the causes of social disharmony and leads to violations of human rights . -LRB- United Nations General Assembly , Combating defamation of religions , 2006 -RRB- . Coexistence between communities with radically different creeds , values and viewpoints needs to be carefully supervised in multi-cultural societies . Too often the uncertainty that accompanies migrant life can serve to inspire to give too much credence to the views of zealots and fundamentalists . To prevent communities deliberately isolating themselves from their neighbours ; to prevent communal violence , it is necessary for the state to create an environment in which disputes can be resolved by impartial and properly trained prosecutorial authorities . Discrimination laws are instrumental to building peaceful social realities . They signify a welcoming society , in which it is unacceptable to offend entire segments of the population by debasing what they hold most precious . Blasphemous statements have a power that reaches far beyond ordinary hate speech . Acts covered by this law would include intentionally provocative publications such as the cartoons of the prophet Mohammed that featured prominently in a Danish newspaper in 2005 . These images led to widespread protests and violence in both western states and majority Muslim countries . The offensive content of the cartoons gave credence and legitimacy to sects and clerics espousing absolutist ideas that have no space for compromise or understanding . Further , the protests also brought individuals who would ordinarily have considered themselves moderates into contact with violent extremists . Neither of these outcomes does anything to promote a culture of free and frank discussion within the societies affected . The legal measures that side proposition supports do not oblige free thinkers to remain silent in the face of zealotry and bigotry . However , they does require writers , journalists and artists to apply their reason and their sense to content that they want to publish for mass consumption . Much like laws that prevent the negligent operation of businesses , anti-blasphemy laws would set a minimal standard of responsible conduct in order to ensure that publications did not cause a dangerous level of offense to significant numbers ordinary and rational religious believers . Legal definitions and enforcement of standards of responsibility do not preclude individuals from pursuing dangerous or entrepreneurial business ventures or public works . They need not prevent the creation of controversial and challenging forms of free expression either . 	Social cohesion and hate speech
This will help change practices of sexuality-discrimination in nations across the world . One of the most effective ways to engage the international community on swift action to protect certain rights is to make a clear , bold statement against a particular type of behaviour . By acting to not just condemn a certain behaviour , but actively circumvent states ability to carry out such a behaviour , the international community sends a message of the unacceptability of such practices . Moreover , and more importantly , regardless of if the countries are persuaded into agreeing with the international community on the issues of LGBT rights , this action will still change state behaviour . This will happen for two reasons : The best example of this is that due to strong and vocal condemnation of the Bahati Bill in Uganda which would have imposed the death penalty for the crime of homosexuality , the Cabinet Committee rejected the bill . Therefore , this policy is instrumental in changing state behaviour towards sexual orientation and making the first steps towards acceptance and ending discrimination . 	This policy of asylum pressures governments to reform discriminatory laws
Global consensus on progressive rights for the LGBT community will be aided through this policy . One of the most powerful weapons in the international communitys arsenal is the soft power of condemnation . One of the most important things the international community can do is use its weight and influence to advocate protection of vulnerable peoples and promote moral and social causes . The West with its immense wealth and importance in international institutions such as the United Nations have a lot of power when it comes to influencing discriminatory policies in other nations . Granting asylum to people on the basis of sexual orientation sends a clear message to the international community that it is not okay to discriminate on the grounds of sexual orientation and that the West not only strongly disapproves of this behaviour , but that , more importantly , they will take active steps to counter-act your discriminatory policies . This has immense impact on pressuring governments to change their policies . What is important to note here is that there is a gradual normative consensus that is manufactured under this system . Through the use of soft power , the policies of nations are slowly but surely moderated and a global consensus is created . Not only can this policy influence current state behaviour , but that the influence and change that creates becomes part of a larger global move towards universal acceptance of the norm and the diffusion of that idea throughout all strata of society . This is important in two ways : Making sexual orientation a category for asylum not only saves lives , but also sends a strong and influential message that helps craft policy in nations who use discrimination as a tool of oppression against the LGBT community . This begins the foundations of global consensus on equality for all sexual orientations and a lasting solution to the issue of discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation . 	This policy of asylum helps manufacture global consensus on the protection of the LGBT community
The LGBT community fulfills the most basic principles and purposes of the concept of asylum . Asylum was created as a direct protection of Article 14 of the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights -LRB- UNDHR -RRB- 1948 which states that Everyone has the right to seek and to enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution . This article was created in order to protect the third article of the declaration Everyone has the right to life , liberty and security of person . This concept of asylum was created to develop a separate category of migration that would allow its applicants to breach normal immigration protocol and application procedures on the basis that these people were in immediate danger and that without creating a specific bypass for them , they would endure great harm or death . The point of asylum as a specific and emergency measure and , indeed a moral necessity , was two-fold : 1 -RRB- The immediate nature of the threat/danger to their person 2 -RRB- That this threat was persecutory in nature What is important to note is that persecution is fundamentally different than prosecution . The difference lay in the acceptability and justice of the punishment someone may or will endure . Persecution is a term used for a punishment that is unjust or morally abhorrent . Asylum has emerged as a category of protection we grant to people who we believe that we are morally obligated to help , because if we do not , they will receive a punishment they do not deserve and will severely harmed for something they deserve no harm for . We , the proposition , believe that both of these criteria are filled by those fleeing persecution for sexual orientation and thus we are morally-obligated to grant them asylum . First , it is clear that they are facing immediate danger . Whether it is death penalties in places like Uganda or vigilante justice against homosexuals such as the murder of David Kato . In places like Uganda , local tabloids often publishes Gay Lists of individuals they believe are gay so that the community can track them down and kill them for their sexual orientation , which is how and why David Kato was murdered . It is clear that whether by the state or by their neighbour , there is a clear and immediate danger to many LGBT people across the world . The second criteria of the unacceptability of this persecution is also clear . We as Western Liberal democracies have in recent years become increasingly accepting of the LGBT community with the granting of gay marriage , application of anti-discrimination laws and even allowing of gay-adoption in many countries . The sexual orientation of an individual is in no indicative of ones worth as a human being in the eyes of the Western Liberal Democracy and can never possible be a death sentence . It is inconceivable for us to consider sexual orientation a reason to not allow a person to raise a child , never mind view it as an acceptable reason for death . 	The LGBT community fulfills the basic principles and purposes of asylum
The decreased cost of pharmaceuticals allows African states to focus on other aspects of medical schemes . Pharmaceuticals are not the only aspect in treatment , there needs to be sufficient staff , medical equipment and infrastructure . These requirements cost money , which the savings made on pharmaceuticals provide . In Europe , 50 % of dispensed medicines are generic yet they cost only 18 % of pharmaceutical expenditure , with a similar model predicted for South Africa . This allows the state to focus on other aspects of medical schemes . Ibid Health24 , South Africans embrace generic meds 	Savings can be used in other sections of medical care
Generic drugs are much cheaper to produce , which is ideal for Africas struggling population . While there has been significant gross domestic product -LRB- GDP -RRB- growth in Africa , the actual distribution of wealth is relatively unequal . According to Afrobarometer , 53 % of Africans still feel that their economic condition is poor . This restricts their ability to purchase high cost drugs . Generic medication would reduce the price of these drugs , making them affordable to the average citizen . The patented drug Glivec , used for cancer treatment , costs 48.62 for 400 mg in South Africa while its generic equivalent -LRB- produced in India -RRB- costs 4.82 . Increased access will result in higher levels of treatment , which in turn will reduce death rates from preventable diseases in Africa . Hofmeyr , Jan , Africa Rising ? Popular Dissatisfaction with Economic Management Despite a Decade of Growth Op Cit 	Easily affordable drugs will mean greater access
The increased availability of high quality generic drugs will reduce the numbers of bad and fake pharmaceuticals on the markets . The cost of patented drugs has forced many to search for other options . This is exploited by the billion dollar global counterfeit drug trade . Fake drugs are the cause of around 100,000 deaths in Africa every year . Bad drugs , which are substandard , have also found their way in to Africa ; one in six tuberculosis pills have been found to be of a poor quality . The widespread introduction of low cost , high quality drugs will hopefully ensure that consumers do not turn to sellers in market places . Sambira , J. Counterfeit drugs raise Africas temperature Ibid 	Reduce the prominence of bad and fake drugs
It is unrealistic to expect poorer countries , such as those in Africa , to pay the same price as the developed worlds markets . Current patent laws for many countries dictate that prices for buying patented drugs should be universally the same . This makes it extremely difficult for African countries to purchase pharmaceuticals set at the market price of developed countries . In the US there are nine patented drugs which cost in excess of $ 200,000 . To expect developing African states to afford this price is unfair and reinforces the exploitative relationship between the developed and developing world . Generic drugs escape this problem due to their universally low prices . Herper , M . The Worlds Most Expensive Drugs 	Unfair to apply same patent laws universally
In any meaningful way Palestine is a state . It may well be one at war with a neighbour and in dispute over its boundaries but the only reason it has yet to be recognised is that it would be politically inconvenient for the US , Israel and their allies . There are plenty of nations that do not function in line with European and North American concepts of statehood , Afghanistan for example , however they take their seat at the UN and add their voice to the choir of nations . There are even other member states that are not recognised by every other member state , Israel is not recognised by 33 UN members and the Peoples Republic of China is not recognised by 23 UN members . Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs , Background Note : Israel , , 10 December 2010 , Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs , Background Note : China , , 6 September 2011 , 	Palestine has its own infrastructure and government and is , in all meaningful ways a state
Nobody can dispute that Palestine functions as a nation , its citizens are governed within the jurisdiction of a government that is one of the closest observed in the world . Abbas has as much right to speak for the Palestinian people as any other world leader does for theirs and that reality is reflected in the fact that he and other members of his administration negotiate with other nation states and international bodies . Palestine is for example a member of numerous International Organisations the most recent of which is joining UNESCO in November 2011 . If Palestine can be treated as a state for the purposes of signing international treaties and negotiating with the Israeli and other governments then it is only sensible that it should be awarded the benefits and status that come with statehood , of which recognition by the UN is one . UNESCO , Palestine , unesco.org , 2011 , Jewish Virtual Library , Israel-PLO Recognition , 9 September 1993 , 	Palestine is a legal entity and deserves to have its voice heard on an equal footing with Israel
The territory claimed by both the state of Israel and the state of Palestine is contested . These matters should be settled by the UN but this is not possible when one of the parties is represented but the other is not . It is simply against the principles of natural justice let alone the precepts of international law for only one party in any dispute to be fully represented where the other is not . Essentially , this is a fraud that has been perpetrated for over sixty years , in the interests of politics , justice has been ignored ; Israel has been given recognition when Palestine has not , which body has the right to speak for the populace of that disputed territory should not be a matter imposed from outside but for the inhabitants of the land itself . 	The issue of Israel/Palestine has been a major one for the UN for sixty years , it is simply unfair that one of the parties represented and the other one is not
Countries desire to have influence among the international community . States gain this influence in all sorts of way ; economic wealth , high technology , charismatic leaders , or a military power . Having an AU standing army would help provide Africa with influence ; it would show the unity of the continent and its willingness to work together . A lot of influence is about perception and this is something that an AU army can change ; Africa will no longer be a continent that can not act for itself even on its own soil but will instead be taking the burden off more established peacekeeping countries . This is an important gain as influence is gained by being able to bring something to the table . Having an AU force means the AU will always be able to bring resources and capabilities when there is a crisis in Africa . The default position will no longer be to look to the UN , or even to France and the UK for peacekeepers when there is a crisis in Africa but to the AU itself . But an AU army would have other benefits too as the continent would be a better investment opportunity if there is an army guaranteeing security and ensuring peace . The continents economic influence may also therefore expand as a result . 	Showing Africa can solve its own problems
The primary purpose of international organisations is to resolve conflicts between members . In the case of the AU its first stated objective is achieve greater unity and solidarity between the African countries . The main threat to this unity as well as peace in the continent is rebel groups and internal conflict . Groups for whom the only goal is wealth or to get into power in their own country . -LRB- 2 -RRB- An AU forces role would therefore be to defeat these armed groups and to engage in peacekeeping . An AU force is always going to be better at handling these situations due to its legitimacy in Africa . In many African countries , the West is perceived as an imperialist power , due to their colonial past and as a result there is a serious lack of trust between the parties . An AU force will also be better than any local force as a peacekeeper as it will , like the UN , be seen as being independent while also being African . It would also , like the rebels , be able to cross borders . Such a force would therefore be able to hunt down rebels like the Lords Resistance Army which has so far evaded destruction by moving between Uganda , Southern Sudan , and DR Congo . -LRB- 1 -RRB- The Constitutive Act , , 11 July 2000 , -LRB- 2 -RRB- Gettleman , Jeffrey , Africa 's Forever Wars , April 2010 	African forces will be trusted by Africans
It is clear that Africa can not rely on the international community to solve its conflicts . In order to be more independent , what the African Union needs is a standing army , which can intervene whenever there is a crisis . First of all , when looking at statistics , having dipped in the 1990s the number of conflicts is growing once more , the most recent events of Mali and the Algeria serving as a perfect example -LRB- 1 -RRB- . following a year -LRB- 2010 -RRB- that signalled hope for a more peaceful development , the number of conflicts increased by nearly 20 percent -LRB- 4 -RRB- . This has served to demonstrate Africas need for a force to engage in peace keeping and peace making . Despite the growing need for peacekeeping forces , there is reason to believe that the help coming from the international community will be insufficient . The dysfunctional structure of the UNSC , the body which approves all major international interventions . Russia and China , two countries which have a non interventionist approach on foreign policy , have veto power in this body ; which means a lot of possible interventions get vetoed . The examples of Syria and Sudan prove the inability of the international community to intervene in crisis situations -LRB- 2 -RRB- -LRB- 3 -RRB- . -LRB- 1 -RRB- Jihad in the Sahara , Jan 17th 2013 , -LRB- 2 -RRB- Genocide in Darfur , , 2013 , -LRB- 3 -RRB- Reuters , Syria Death Toll Tops 115,000 , Group Says , 1 October 2013 , -LRB- 4 -RRB- The number of armed conflicts increased strongly in 2011 , , 13 July 2013 , = 	The international community cant be relied upon
Those running media corporations should be morally upright people who control their media companies in the public interest as these are organisations that potentially have a lot of influence through their control of information . This is however not at all how Rupert Murdoch ran News Corp or his newspapers . Murdoch has been running his empire in pursuit of power and to advance a right wing agenda . His influence was such that even naturally left wing parties such as New Labour under Tony Blair stuck to right wing or wing orthodoxies in order to keep the support of the Murdoch press . Murdoch was therefore pushing narrow interests rather than the public interest . Murdochs News Corporation has shown their lack of moral scruples not just by engaging in industrial scale hacking but also by its determination to use its contacts to close down investigations by parliament or the police as well as being willing to destroy evidence and lie when giving evidence . Tom Watson MP has gone so far as to accuse Murdoch of being the first mafia boss in history who didnt know he was running a criminal enterprise . The attitude of the person at the top towards how their company and its staff should conduct themselves informs how they do conduct themselves and engage in their business . It is the owners and the management that create the corporate culture which in Murdoch tabloids meant profits at all costs and doing anything to get a story . 	Murdoch is morally unfit to run a powerful media company .
The Medias role is to increase transparency and bring others to account . Murdoch himself in his testimony to Leveson said `` If we 're a transparent society , a transparent democracy , let 's have it out there '' yet he has been exactly the opposite in terms of accountability and transparency . The House of Commons Select Committee on Culture , Media and Sport has published a report in which it concludes that the culture of the publication , News of the World , was throughout , until it was too late , was to cover up rather than seek out wrongdoing and discipline the perpetrators , as they also professed they would do after the criminal convictions . The strategy was to blame individuals and when such a containment strategy failed to shut down the News of the World so as to protect top bosses . News International was clearly not living up to high standards of transparency . 	There was a lack of transparency in News Corp
Handguns are specifically worse than most other weapons . They are weapons which are both concealable and portable . Shotguns and Rifles can easily be identified from a long distance making it easier to avoid those who are carrying them or conversely for the authorities check their motives for carrying arms . Handguns , being ranged weapons -LRB- as opposed to knives -RRB- , prevent people from opting to run away if they are confronted by an attacker and being concealable prevent any attempt at avoiding those carrying them . Because of these unique capabilities they make excellent weapons for gang members who wish to remain inconspicuous to avoid being searched by the police . Further , they are also uniquely useful for other criminal actors such as drug dealers who need to be able to protect themselves , but also need to appear unassuming for clients . As such , handguns , where they are freely available , are often used by most criminals for these purposes . Given that handguns are also more likely to cause accidental injuries - as a result of incompetence or recklessness - than a knife , it seems logical that handguns cause a much larger harm to citizens in places where they are freely available . 	Handguns are uniquely dangerous when compared with other weapons
Aside from the fact that handguns are uniquely dangerous weapons , when the handgun ban was in place in DC , there was a reported decrease in crime in the area . In 1977 the year immediately following the ban the U.S. Conference of Mayors reported robberies , assaults and homicides using handguns had fallen in DC sharply . Further , in 1991 the University of Maryland published a study in the New England journal of Medicine suggesting the gun ban had saved lives in the decade before 1991 , claiming that the ban had prevented 47 deaths in DC per year . It is theorised that the handgun ban does this because it makes other police tactics , such as stop and search , significantly more effective . If criminals wish to get the tactical advantage of power that opposition mention then they have to carry hand guns in order to do it . However , it means that if they are caught with a gun they become very easily identifiable and can easily be arrested to prevent harm coming to the populace of large . Specifically , the handgun ban means that the police have a much lower burden required in order to arrest suspects and given that a lot of the time the police have a strong idea of who the criminals are , but simply cant pin them for arrest , such a tactical advantage helps them get dangerous people off the street . 	A handgun ban reduces crime and deaths
Under the status quo the state exists to protect the security of its citizens . It does so by maintaining a monopoly of violence with the consent of its citizens . US citizens have been allowed to bear small arms as a symbolic representation of their ability to rise up against state oppression should it ever occur . That is , to keep a check and balance upon the monopoly of violence that the state has . It is important to note that the state has the monopoly of violence such that it can protect its citizens in the best possible way . In the same way , the right to bear arms exists such that citizens can protect themselves and prevent harm . This means that should the state visit harm upon the citizens of the state then its right to claim a monopoly on violence is revoked and the citizens can fight against the state . In a similar fashion to the above , should the citizens of the state use their right to bear arms to visit harm upon one another , it seems reasonable that in the same way that the states monopoly on violence is revoked , the citizens should have their right to bear arms revoked . Given that this does not occur in every single part of the U.S. it also seems reasonable to isolate the ban to areas where the spirit of the right to bear arms is being significantly violated . In this case the ban is limited to DC however it could potentially extend to other areas in the U.S. which suffer similar problems . 	Individuals Should Not Have the Right to Bear Arms in DC
The public sector is often significantly overpaid . The workers within the public sectors of Western liberal democracies often get paid more than people of equal education and experience who are employed in the private sector . In the United States there is a salary premium of 10-20 percent in the public sector . The reason this happens is that collective bargaining means that workers can often , through the simple idea that they can communicate with the government and have a hand in the decision making process , make their demands much more easily . Further , governments in particular are vulnerable during negotiations with unions , due their need to maintain both their political credibility and the cost effectiveness of the services they provide . This is significantly different to private enterprise where public opinion of the company is often significantly less relevant . As such , public sector workers can earn significantly more than their equally skilled counterparts in the private sector . This is problematic because it leads to a drain of workers and ideas from the private sector to the public . This is , in and of itself , problematic because the public sector , due to being shackled to the needs of public opinion often take fewer risks than the private sector and as such results in fewer innovations than work in the private sector . Biggs , Andrew G. Why Wisconsin Gov . Scott Walker Is Right About Collective Bargaining . 	Collective Bargaining Leads to an Overpaid Public Sector
The bargain between normal unions and private enterprise involves all parties being brought to the table and talking about the issues that they might have . However , the public sector represents the benefits of taxpayers , the politicians and the unions . The power that unions exercises means that negotiations can happen without the consent or involvement of the public sectors stakeholders , the public . Even though power in a democracy is usually devolved to the politicians for this purpose , given the highly politicised nature of union negotiations , government office-holders who supervise union negotiations may act inconsistently with the mandate that the electorate have given them . This is because public unions often command a very large block of voters and can threaten politicians with this block of voters readily . This is not the same as a private business where officials arent elected by their workers . As such , collective bargaining rights for public union undermine the ability of taxpayers to dictate where their money is being spent significantly . Union Bargaining Just A Dream For Many Gov Workers . 	Collective Bargaining Hurts the Democratic Process
Whilst the freedom of association exists under the state and it is true that people should be allowed to communicate with one another and form groups to forward their personal and political interests , it is not true that the freedom of association automatically grants access to the decision making process . Unions in this instance are problematic because whilst other groups do not have access to special privileges , unions are able to exert a significant and disproportionate amount of influence over the political process through the use of collective bargaining mechanisms . . In the case of unions in the private sector they can cause large amounts of disruption which has a large knock on impact on the economy giving leverage over politicians for whom the economy and jobs are always important issues . For example unions in transport in the private sector are just as disruptive as in the public sector . Even more minor businesses can be significant due to being in supply or logistics chains that are vital for important parts of the economy . The access to the decision making process that unions are granted goes above and beyond the rights that we award to all other groups and as such this right , if it can be called one at all , can easily be taken away as it is the removal of an inequality within our system . Further , even if collective bargaining were to be considered a right , the government can curtail the rights of individuals and groups of people should it feel the harm to all of society is great enough . We see this with the limits that we put on free speech such that we may prevent the incitement of racial hatred . Shepardson , David , GM , Ford warn rail strike could cripple auto industry , , 30 November 2011 , Denholm , David Guess What : There is no right to collective bargaining . 	Collective Bargaining is Not a Right
The bargain between normal unions and private enterprise involves all parties being brought to the table and talking about the issues that they might have . However , the public sector represents the benefits of taxpayers , the politicians and the unions . The power that unions exercises means that negotiations can happen without the consent or involvement of the public sectors stakeholders , the public . Even though power in a democracy is usually devolved to the politicians for this purpose , given the highly politicised nature of union negotiations , government office-holders who supervise union negotiations may act inconsistently with the mandate that the electorate have given them . This is because public unions often command a very large block of voters and can threaten politicians with this block of voters readily . This is not the same as a private business where officials arent elected by their workers . As such , collective bargaining rights for public union undermine the ability of taxpayers to dictate where their money is being spent significantly . Union Bargaining Just A Dream For Many Gov Workers . 	Collective Bargaining is Needed to Voice Opinion
Its simply a violation of basic democratic principles for one vote to be worth more than another . There have been plenty of other attempts to restrict the rights of party members and activists to select candidates by party insiders keen to sew up the selection without members being consulted , super-delegates were created as a watered down response to one of these but the effects are the same . Regardless of how votes are actually cast it gives a very poor appearance a sends a bad message for a major party especially one called the Democratic Party - to be justifying such a situation . 	One person , one vote is a basic principal of democracy when the vote of one person is worth 10,000 time as much as that of another is simply undemocratic
Superdelegates , as many are senators , representatives or officials in the states , often have their own reelection campaigns to secure and as a result their votes can be up for negotiation or go to which candidate will be best for their own reelection chances rather than in the best interests of the party . Presidential candidates are often prepared to make concessions to superdelegates to secure their support . There is public acknowledgement of the fact that this process takes place and the fact that they are not obliged to support the candidate designated by their state parties gives them enormous bargaining power . For example in 2008 several Democratic Representatives of Ohio formed a Protect American Jobs pact to hold back from endorsements until a candidate addresses issues of importance to the Ohio economy . The system of superdelegates simply extends the pork-barrel buffet into the convention . With votes to be bought through offer of jobs or political support , the political process is distorted and corrupted . Czawadzki , Ohios Superdelegates Hold Endorsements Hostage , , 6 March 2008 , 	Candidates solicitation of superdelegates damages the political system and requires candidates to go through contortions to secure their support
The influence of superdelegates acts as a vehicle for an elite that needs little help . The situation in which the superdelegates would be most likely to act were as the result of the membership of the party selecting someone from outside the political class or their friends in business . It was worried that this might happen in 1998 in the close primary contest between Clinton and Obama . There is no reason that this decision should not be left to the members , it is after their party and they should be represented by whosoever they see fit . The decision in a democracy over the governance of the country or the leadership of the party should be determined by the populous or the members . Allowing a disproportionate influence to past leaders and those they have selected inevitably discourages new ideas and new voices . Younge , Gary , Its up to the superdelegates to prove Democrats believe in democracy , , 18 February 2008 	The disproportionate influence of former politicians inevitably benefits old , powerful , white men
Freedom to religion is widely considered to be a fundamental human right . Freedom of religion is very similar to freedom of expression and is an inalienable right that can not be taken away by the state . Article 18 of the universal declaration of human rights states Everyone has the right to freedom of religion ; this right includes freedom to change his religion or belief , and freedom , either alone or in community with others and in public or private , to manifest his religion or belief in teaching , practice , worship and observance . In addition to this , many people consider religion to be the single most important thing in their life . Under the status quo , many people are inhibited in their ability to practise their religion to its fullest degree . This not only causes them great distress due to how important this is to them but is a breach of their human rights . The government has an obligation to provide people with a basic standard of life and thus must pass this legislation . 	People have a right to freedom of religion .
People who are caused distress and have their religious freedom limited by their government are likely to feel disillusioned with and sidelined by their government . They will wonder why other religious groups can follow all the teachings of their faith while the government limits theirs . This kind of limitation of how to worship or what traditions and beliefs to follow can be part of the cause that leads to members of that religion feeling not welcome and discriminated against , ultimately leading to extremism . Allowing religious beliefs to override government laws would relieve these feelings and dramatically improve religious peoples relationship with the state . This improvement in relationship would severely reduce the likelihood of anti-government feelings and general civil unrest . 	Relationship between state and religious population
Currently , the state and organised religion are often seen as diametrically opposed . For example the state often worries about the threat of religious extremists . This causes a lot of tension between the government and religious communities within the country , as well as between the state and states which hold religion more highly . As the Bishop of Liverpool puts it Church and politics are not two parallel lines ; rather they are two live wires , side by side , which when they touch should ignite and explode . Thus when Rowan Williams suggested Sharia might be accommodated his comments created a political storm . This legislation would show that we do value and respect religious freedom and rights and would improve our relationships on both of these fronts . Gay , Kathlyn . Church and State . Millbrook Press 1992 	Relationship between state and organised religion .
Restricting suspected terrorists rights to challenge their detention is necessary to ensure that that individual can not participate in future terrorist activities . The attacks of September 11 constituted a catastrophic and unprecedented attack on US soil , and the measures undertaken by the US at Guantanamo Bay , in holding many terrorist suspects without trial , are necessary to prevent future attacks of that nature . Terror suspects still have recourse to military tribunals , which contain many of the same safeguards as the federal court system . 	Restricting Habeas Corpus is necessary in the face of the new and dangerous threat which modern terrorism poses .
There is a longstanding tradition of suspending Habeas Corpus protections during times of war and conflict . For example , President Lincoln suspended Habeas Corpus during the Civil War . Habeas Corpus was also suspended briefly in the Hawaii during World War II , immediately after the attacks on Pearl Harbour . In the UK , Habeas Corpus was suspended in 1794 , after the French declared war on Britain , and in 1817 , in order to arrest parliamentary reformers . In 1971 Habeas Corpus was again suspended in the UK in order that IRA suspects could be arrested and detained . 9/11 and other Al Qaeda plots require that Western countries respond in just as determined a way . The war on terror may not follow the rules of traditional warfare , but it is a war nonetheless . These precedents show that , in certain circumstances , the suspension of Habeas Corpus is both necessary and justified . Lincoln , Abraham , Proclamation Suspending the Writ of Habeas Corpus , 24 September 1862 , Anthony , J. Garner , , Stanford University Press , p. 5 , Holmberg , Tom , Great Britain : Suspension of Habeas Corpus . 7 May 1794 , , July 2002 , Habeas Corpus Suspension Bill , Hansard , 24 June 1817 , vol .36 , cc1145-55 , Wilkinson , Paul , , 2 ed . , Routledge , 2006 , p. 82 , 	Habeas Corpus has often been suspended in times of conflict , when it has been deemed necessary .
Unlawful enemy combatants are not US citizens . The only connection they have to the US is the desire to destroy it . As such , they do not fall within the group of people the Constitution is intended to protect . BBC News , Guantanamo appeal denied , 12 March 2003 , 	Enemy combatants are not US citizens and as such they should not enjoy any protection which a US citizen enjoys under the Constitution .
Currently the UK is recognised as a nuclear power by the Nuclear non-proliferation treaty along with the USA , China , France and Russia . All of whom are either modernising or maintaining their current nuclear arsenals . This means to not replace Trident would mean that we 'd suffer a severe loss of status in relation to the other permanent members of the UN Security Council . This would also raise questions of whether the UK even deserves its place as a member there as it would show the UKs declining global role and military power . Other countries that can be considered `` more representative '' such as India -LRB- the world 's largest democracy -RRB- now would be an obvious replacement at the top table . Churchill said that the H bomb that it was `` our badge to the Royal Enclosure -LSB- at Ascot -RSB- '' and today Trident remains one of our master keys to the Britains status at organisations such as the United Nations Security Council . There are already plenty of reasons why other countries might be more deserving of a security council place than the UK ; we dont need to add another . James Wirtz in `` Contemporary Security Studies '' Oxford University Press , First Edition 2007 , Chapter 15 , p273 	Trident allows the UK to maintain its global status
The UK nuclear weapons programme was first created in late 1945 a time when people were concerned about the US commitment to Europe which was uncertain as the rise of the Iron Curtain had not been yet apparent . Currently if we did n't replace trident and disarmed more likely than not we would fall under the American strategic nuclear umbrella which would be fair enough in the short term and medium term as the relationship is currently strong despite certain cobblestones . A similar thing also applies with the French But can we really rely on the Americans to keep that umbrella extended over the long term when their interests and emphasis may shift , regardless of cultural or ideological links ? Relying on someone elses deterrent will always be risky as the US or France would not want to put themselves at risk of being attacked in order to deter an attack on us . An independent deterrence arsenal is necessary to maintain deterrence . 	Can we rely on US nuclear umbrella ?
In sports it is crucial that the best person wins no matter of his or her sex . We should let the women decide if they are prepared enough to participate in mens events , and not take that decision for them by forcing them into set leagues . American skier Lindsey Vonn has won the women 's World Cup four times . In November 2012 , she asked to be allowed to compete in the men 's event . The request was denied -LRB- 1 -RRB- . If a female athlete can perform better than a male athlete in a certain discipline , she should be allowed to compete with , and beat , the male athlete . The examples of Danica Patrick , a NASCAR driver who won the 2008 Indy Japan 300 and finished 3rd in the 2009 Indy 500 and Seena Hogan who holds multiple records in ultra cycling , which havent been beaten by any man or women to this day -LRB- 2 -RRB- , show us how women can improve a competition in a significant way . At the end of the day , it doesnt matter who wins , the very purpose of sports forces us to let them take the decision , as we can not accurately suppose that women are worse than men at every single competition of every single sporting event as shown by the stated examples . -LRB- 1 -RRB- , Skier Lindsey Vonn ca n't race against men in WCup November 3 , 2012 -LRB- 2 -RRB- Esteban 9 Female Athletes Who Competed Against Men , , October 28 , 2011 	Athletes should decide for themselves .
Deterrence works through several mechanisms ; likelihood of getting caught , severity of punishment , and perceived public disapproval . Mandatory minimum sentences increase the effectiveness of severity as a deterrent . If potential criminals know a mild sentence is possible , they are more likely to commit crime in the hopes that they may charm a judge into sympathetically lowering their sentence . By establishing a set minimum punishment , a potential criminal with any knowledge of the penal code knows that , if caught , he/she will face a substantial punishment for his/her crime . The pro need not demonstrate that every , or even a strong majority , of would-be criminals will be deterred by mandatory minimum sentences ; so long as the mandate has a reasonable deterrent effect , it will reduce crime and therefore improve the overall standard of living . 	Mandatory minimum sentences increase deterrence .
Incapacitation is one of the 4 basic reasons for punishment . Mandatory minimum sentences keep criminals out of society for a longer period of time than they might otherwise be in jail , thereby reducing their window of opportunity to commit crime . The criminal justice system is obligated to refrain from cruel or unusual punishment , but its main purpose is to protect society from law-breakers through various means of preventing and punishing illegal activity . Mandatory minimum sentences should be proportionate to the severity of the crime , thus satisfying the requirement of humane punishment . Thus mandatory minimum sentencing is a just method of protecting the public . 	Minimum sentences increase the effectiveness of incapacitation .
Former Supreme Justice Sandra Day OConnor once said , liberty finds no refuge in a jurisprudence of doubt . Without mandates , judges may have radically different ideas of just sentences . Michael Simons gives the example of Mutt and Jim - two criminals of identical background who commit the same crime . Judge Lenient sentences Mutt , while Judge Harsh sentences Jeff . Mutt might receive one day in prison while Jeff receives a sentence of twenty-five years . While such an extreme is unlikely , it is noteworthy that the legal system emphasizes the importance of consistency . Consistent precedent is essential because citizens need to be able to make decisions knowing the legal consequences of their actions . Mandatory sentencing need not be overly harsh , but there should be some sort of rigidity to establish reliability in the legal system . 	Mandatory sentencing increases consistency in the justice system .
Discretion allows for both intentional and unintentional bias . The U.S. Supreme Court recently heard a case concerning alleged corruption when a West Virginia judge ruled in favor of a plaintiff that had donated over $ 3 million to the judges election campaign . Though this case is not directly linked to minimum sentences , it demonstrates that judicial corruption is an issue in the legal system today ; mandatory sentencing reduces the discretion that allows unethical judicial action . Furthermore , judges may attempt to be impartial , but data shows that humans are inclined to be more sympathetic towards particular groups . For example , female defendants are less likely to receive a death sentence than male defendants , while defendants in general are seven times more likely to receive the death penalty if the victim is female ; scholars suggest that these disparities are caused by societal perceptions that women need greater protection rather than any actual difference in the severity of the crime . Thus even decisions that seem impartial are often not . Strict sentencing mandates are more likely to yield just decisions because they are less vulnerable to individual bias . 	Mandatory minimum sentences remove undue judicial discretion .
The negative side effects of minimum sentencing guidelines can be avoided via safety valves . The U.S. federal government introduced safety valves in 1994 ; mandatory sentencing is suspended if the defendant meets certain criteria , such as being a low-level participant or having no prior criminal history . The safety valve allows flexibility so that low-risk offenders do not receive excessively harsh punishment . Thus mandatory sentencing guidelines have enough flexibility to recognize varying circumstances , while retaining enough rigidity to deliver consistent punishment . 	Mandatory minimum sentencing can be designed to avoid injustices .
Identity cards could prove a key instrument to combat crime , terrorism and fraud . Given that terrorists have used fake passports to cross borders in the past , a sophisticated identity card , possibly containing specific biometric information which can not be easily faked , could be crucial in preventing terrorist acts in the future . In cases where the police were suspicious , they could rapidly check the identities of many people near a crime scene , which would make their investigation much swifter and more effective . The CBI also believes that the creation of a single source of identity data in the form of biometric identity cards would also decrease identity fraud . Given that identity fraud currently costs the UK 2.7 billion per year , Canada over 10 million Canadian dollars per year , and in America identity fraud relating to credit cards alone costs around $ 8.6 billion per year , this is obviously a serious problem under the status quo . These crimes would be much more difficult if biometric data was required for financial transactions and other activities such as leaving or entering a country ; identity cards are the best way forwards . The value of ID cards in combating terrorism and crime is much reduced if not everyone has them as the guilty would be less likely to want to get such cards unless they could somehow fake them . 	Identity cards improve public safety
The average person is faced with numerous requisitions for identification every day , whether trying to access their own bank account , prove their age or prove their address . The identity card could easily incorporate all of this information to become one convenient for of identification and save the user the hassle of carrying so many documents around with them . Given that the average person now has to remember five passwords , five PIN numbers , two number plates , three security ID numbers and three bank account numbers just to get through everyday life , there is evidently a need for a single , concise form of identification . Moreover , it would help to identify the people they have to interact with . There have been numerous cases of criminals posing as company officials such as gas workers in order to gain access to somebodys home and steal from them . These identity cards would particularly help vulnerable citizens who are the most at risk of this kind of injustice . For this reason these cards should be compulsory , they would not be much use as identification if not everyone had one that could be checked by anybody . 	Identity cards confer advantages on their users
Illegal immigration is an enormous problem in Western nations . The UK estimates that there are more that one million illegal immigrants living in Britain , likely around 2.2 million . For America , this number could be as high as 11 million . Identity cards would mean that , even if illegal immigrants did succeed in crossing the border , they would most likely be found out because they could not pass routine security checks required on an everyday basis because they would not have been issued an identity card . Given that illegal immigration is frequently linked to international crime such as trafficking , this is clearly a problem which we need to address in a new way . 	Identity cards can assist in the efficient monitoring of immigration
Law-abiding citizens who have not and do not intend to commit any crimes should not have a problem with this motion . Carrying a single card is not a huge burden to an individual . Rather they can reap the benefits of convenience to them personally , alongside the added security benefit to their whole nation which will help to keep them safe . As it is to be issued to everyone there will not even be the inconvenience of having to spend a long time applying for the card as it is in the governments interest to make it as simple as possible with mobile offices taking the relevant biometrics where the people live so as to have the least impact on individuals lives as possible . 	Only those who are guilty have anything to fear from systems that monitor and confirm identities
As biometric identity cards would be able to store medical data , they could be instrumental in saving somebodys life . For example , if somebody suddenly suffered an epileptic fit , it would be much faster for medical staff to find out their illness and medical history no matter where there medical records are held as everyones records would be linked to their ID card , allowing them to be treated faster and more efficiently . It would also be easier to contact a friend or relative if they knew the last place where they had used their identity card , allowing faster unity of family in a medical emergency . 	Identity cards can be used to locate individuals who are in danger
Outing gay celebrities puts the fight for gay equality in the fore of political discussion by removing the capacity for opposition to pass it off as a minority problem that is not of utmost concern . By outing gay celebrities we do two things . First , we both get rid of the narrative that says that being gay is uncommon and weird , which has been one of the ways right-wing parties have been able to prejudice the public against the gay rights movements . Second , due to the public nature and high exposure of these individuals , it pushes the issue directly into the political spotlight , removing the ability of politicians to deny its significance or avoid discussing it as a pressing issue for legislation . By doing these two things , we propel the issue of gay rights into the political domain and help to shatter the harmful narratives opposition parties have fabricated to quell the struggle for equal rights . 	The motion puts the fight for gay equality to the fore of political discussion
Celebrities are uniquely placed to help break down misunderstanding and prejudice against the gay community . One of the biggest obstacles to breaking down prejudice is the fact that people do not associate with the cause and can view it as alien and a problem that they have , not one that we can understand . Celebrities are uniquely placed to help bridge this gap and foster sympathy and understand about the fight for gay rights because of the relationship they foster with people in society . People feel as though they have an emotional connection and familiarity with the people who are rocketed into their family rooms through their TV every night . This level of familiarity means that when they are outed as gay leads to a breakdown of the idea that gay rights are an issue for them as its an issue that now directly affects you . Moreover , the emotional connection you feel you have with the characters these people play , means that you personalize their situation more than you would with any other form of gay rights activism . Therefore , outing gay celebrities fosters a particular type of sympathy and understanding for the cause that can not be achieved any other way . 	This will help people connect with the cause of gay equality
Celebrities have a special obligation to society because their success and lives are directly created and maintained by society . Celebrities are products of the society that admires them , and so as a result they owe a particularly high duty to that society . As a result , they have an obligation to help that community and whatever way they possibly can in return for the fact that their existence and success is facilitated by them . If gay celebrities do not out themselves to help the cause of an oppressed group in society , the society that has created them and their success has the right to do it for them . Celebrities have limited rights to privacy when that privacy conflicts with the well-being of the individuals who create their success and celebrity status in the first place . Therefore , the outing of gay celebrities is something that society is entitled to do as the lack of outing themselves breaks their obligation to the society that created them . 	Celebrities have an obligation to out themselves
The settlements themselves are self-perpetuating in a manner that makes them pernicious to the rights and very existence of neighbouring Palestinian communities . For one thing , a settlement can not function in isolation . It needs a road for its residents to safely travel to and from work in Israel . Security needs subsequently require that this road be protected from attacks by creating a large military presence along its route , and in many cases moving existing Palestinian settlements . At the very least Palestinian areas are bisected by impassable thoroughfares . In turn settlements require their fields to be protected by high walls and electric fences to protect them from attack , and the construction crews building them also require protection . The result is that even a settlement of a few hundred families rapidly requires the takeover of an amount of land out of all proportion to the actual number of settlers involved , and any further expansion compounds the problem . The security needs of settlements create a situation which makes the livelihood of Palestinians impossible . The existence of the settlements makes these security policies a necessity . As a consequence , the only clear solution is the removal of the settlements . 	Settlements remove Palestinians from their own land , and they produce a self-perpetuating cycle in their search for security
The Settlements , constructed on land that is neither recognizably Israels nor which Israel has even claimed to annex are illegal , encroaching on the territory of a future Palestinian state . It is absurd for the international community to demand the creation of a Palestinian state in the West Bank , and yet allow Israel to establish its population on that land in settlements that view themselves and are viewed by Israel as Israeli territory . Furthermore , their continued expansion is something that each and every Palestinian can see every day . As a result , the continued expansion both : 1 . Destroys Palestinian confidence in the ability and willingness of the International community to enforce its own promises , especially after repeated American and European promises to stop their construction . 2 . Convinces Palestinian opinion that the negotiating process is an Israeli game to buy time until they have changed the facts on the ground . As a consequence of these two factors , the continued expansion of settlements has an impact in driving Palestinians towards violent resistance even beyond the direct impact of the settlement construction by undermining their faith in International Law , and by adding a sense of urgency to their grievances . 	The Settlements are illegal , and demonstrate the impotence of the international community
Whether deliberate or not , the settlements are changing the facts on the ground by changing the political calculus for future Israeli governments . While most Israeli politicians accept the need to abandon some smaller settlements , the vast majority are unlikely to be evacuated . It was politically divisive to the point of breaking the Likud party in two when Ariel Sharon , a man with more credit than anyone else on the Israeli right pulled out of Gaza in 2005 , and there were only a little over 7000 Israeli settlers there . By contrast there are now more than 300,000 settlers in the West Bank , and this number is rising fast . There were less than 200,000 in 2000 . Of these settlers , many are religious and vote for the Haridam -LRB- Orthodox -RRB- parties like the National Religious Party . Because the party has served in governments of both the Left and the Right in recent years , in practice they and the ultra-nationalist Israel Beitinu tend to hold the balance of power in the Israeli Knesset . Therefore every time Israel expands settlements , they are reducing their room to manoeuvre in future Peace Negotiations , and forcing themselves to take a harder stance . This means that Peace will either become less likely -LRB- because Israel will set more extreme terms -RRB- or that Israel will face more internal divisions in order to offer it . In either case , as the settlements expand 	The Settlements commit future Israeli governments to a harder stand in future negotiations
As important as the existence of the settlements themselves is their continued growth . The very fact that Israel has continued to ostensibly negotiate for the independence of a Palestinian state in the West Bank on one hand while rapidly expanding the population and the size of Israeli settlements can be interpreted as a sign of bad faith . For one thing , it raises questions of the seriousness with which Israel is attempting to reach an agreement . Even if the programs of Settlement expansion are intended as a temporary policy in lieu of a settlement , the very fact that Israels plan B is arguably as popular as peace , and being pursued with far more vigour could lead many Palestinians to conclude that Israel is attempting to run out the clock . The consequences of this are inauspicious for the Peace Process . As Palestinian faith in the prospect of peaceful negotiations falters , groups like Hamas are likely to find an increasingly receptive audience for their view that only force will compel Israel to negotiate seriously . This in turn will make compromise all the more difficult to achieve . 	The Settlements are seen by Palestinians as a sign of bad faith on the part of Israel , and therefore weaken the hand of Pro-Peace elements
There is no reasonable chance of success for the opposition movement absent substantial military re-enforcement by the West . The Syrian government is uniquely placed for several reasons to be able to quell any opposition movement and to rule by fear and force for an indefinite amount of time . Bashar al-Assads legitimacy is and never has been based on any type of democratic mandate or popular support . He rules based on control and , as such , has built up many institutions to entrench this capacity to control the Syrian public over the years . Oil revenues are high and Assad has very deep monetary reserves that allow him to buy loyalty from his military and equip himself beyond the capacity of any domestic opposition group could feasibly do . Due to these two factors , the only way that Assad will fall is by force and by force that is far greater than can be attained without the support of the West . Therefore , for the humanitarian situation to be solved , the West must invade Syria . 	Success depends on military intervention .
Widespread indiscriminate killing of human beings is something that everyone in the world has an obligation to end . Mass killing of people is something that affronts the very basic meaning of what it is to be human . It denies the basic empathy and value we afford to each person on the basis of simple personhood and its occurrence is a black mark on all human beings who allow it to occur when they hold the power to end it . In Syria today , the government forces are making their people live in fear of death and are routinely taking the lives of innocent people in order to control their population through fear . This week alone , 33 people were slaughtered by government forces include 6 children . The West has the moral obligation to intervene in Syria to protect the lives of the innocent people and end the reign of terror of Bashar al-Assad . 	We have a duty to launch a humanitarian intervention in Syria .
Tibet , and the resistance Tibetans continue to show to Chinese rule presents a toxic domestic and international political problem that costs far more than it worth . Domestically , violence in Tibet is the most serious domestic disturbance facing the Chinese government , and the fact that there is nearly constant violence between Han Settlers and Tibetans forces the Chinese to alienate everyone in order to contain it . Furthermore , the economic and political disenfranchisement of the Tibetan people is an enormous domestic problem , as it has led to large numbers becoming unemployed and moving to other parts of China where they form an underclass . Internationally , the Tibetan issue keeps Chinas Human Rights record in the news and almost torpedoed the 2008 Olympic games . Given that China is already losing money on the province , it may well be worth it for China to jettison it in order to gain much greater international benefits . 	Tibet presents an explosive domestic political issue for China which the latter would benefit from eliminating
Tibet has a long history of independence going back more than 1500 years . Even in times of Chinese domination , Tibetans largely governed themselves independently of the small number of Chinese officials in Lhasa . Tibet at most was a tributary of China , and was no more part of it than Thailand , Myanmar or Korea . And from 1911 until 1950 it was entirely independent and conducted its foreign relations as such , for example remaining neutral in World War II despite both its neighbours the Republic of China and the British Empire being on the side of the Allies . Tibets annexation by China occurred under the guns of 40,000 Chinese soldiers , and the precedent begun by the invasion stands as one of the few post-1945 cases in which the national principle was abandoned and the only one in which a fully independent state vanished from the map . When one notes that Tibetans have their own language , and a history that includes far more wars with the Chinese than examples of kinship , Chinese arguments of sovereignty have little bearing on the reality . 	Tibet is a distinct nation with a distinct history that China illegally invaded
Due to systematic campaign of Sinocization , millions of Han Chinese have been encouraged to settle in Tibet , and with the support of the government they now dominate the economy and upper echelons of the administration . Demographically Tibetans are rapidly becoming a minority within their own country , and administratively this has already taken place . While short of open genocide , the intent of the Chinese government is quite clearly the elimination of the Tibetan people as a distinct national , cultural and linguistic group . Not only are they attempting to drown them through settlement , but Tibetan students are forced to learn Mandarin in the schools and are being taught that they are Chinese . While there may well have been past periods of Chinese sovereignty , the policies of the current Beijing government seem designed to produce an outcome far more permanent than those past efforts which respected Tibetan identity and culture . 	Tibetans are rapidly becoming a minority in their own country
An independent Tibet would serve a useful purpose as a neutral and demilitarized buffer state between India and China . Given the rising economic and military clout of both powers , a future conflict is becoming ever more likely , and they already fought one war against one another in 1962 . An independent Tibet would mean that the two nations would no longer have a common border , making their rivalry less practical and far less pressing . This would reduce military obligations for both , and prevent the Tibetans from being caught in the middle of a future conflict . 	An independent Tibet would serve as a buffer state between India and China , reducing the chances of a regional clash
Developed countries emit the most greenhouse gases per capita , in 2008 the US emitted 17.9 tonnes compared to Chinas 5.3 tons per person , and therefore a reduction from these nations is both easier and has a greater impact than from developing nations . Countries with high CO2 emissions can reduce these emissions through lifestyle changes that do not reduce citizens quality of life , for example simply by reducing the amount they drive walking or going by bike when only going a short distance whereas for developing nations reductions either have to work out ways of doing things more efficiently or accept that living standards will be affected as most peoples lifestyles are already low carbon , the challenge is to keep it that way while improving quality of life . CO2 emissions -LRB- metric tons per capita -RRB- , , 	The biggest emitters per capita will have the most impact when they reduce emissions
It is through heavy industrialisation that developed countries are developed since they contributed more to climate change , they have a greater obligation to resolve it . Climate change has largely been caused by long-term emissions by developed countries . While China is now the worlds biggest CO2 emitter and other developing countries emissions are rapidly rising historically the vast majority of emissions have been from developed nations . From 1900 to 2004 the United States produced 314,772 million metric tonnes of CO2 compared to Chinas 89,243 million metric tonnes and while India now produces more CO2 Germany over the same period emitted three times as much . As CO2 can remain in the atmosphere for a long time , about 50 % will be removed within 30 years , but 20 % or more may remain for thousands of years , the history of emissions is as relevant as current emissions . Since they contribute more of the damage , and since each nation has a responsibility for the harm it has caused , developed nations have an increased obligation to combat climate change . Vaughn , Adam , A history of CO2 emissions , , 2 September 2009 , 	The developed world is mostly to blame for climate change
Developing nations need to be allowed to develop without the burden of emission restrictions . Developed nations have been allowed to industrialize at whatever pace they wished , and through industrialization produce emissions . Despite having been polluting the atmosphere as a result of industrialization since the early 19 Century developed nations only began comprehensively limiting pollution after World War II in order to reduce smog through regulation such as the 1955 Air Pollution Control act and 1963 Clean Air Act in the United States and many developed countries have yet to regulate their CO2 emissions . Having had free reign to develop for 200 years the developed nations need to take responsibility for those 200 years of irresponsibility while giving the developing world longer to clean up its act . The developing world at the same time has higher responsibilities that come first , for example to ensure that there is no one living in poverty . In India 456 million people live on under $ 1.25 per day , it is absurd to suggest that India despite having higher CO2 emissions than Japan , indeed almost double , should have to reduce its emissions by a similar amount and at the same time industrialise to pull these millions out of poverty . Environmental Protection Agency , History of the Clean Air Act , 16 November 2010 , 	Developed countries must combat climate change while developing countries have more pressing concerns
It is the developed world that has the capability to combat climate change . It is they that have most to cut per capita . More importantly it is these developed countries that have the research capabilities to come up with the necessary technology to make the economy greener , to produce renewable energy , to mitigate against the effects of disasters . Moreover these same places are the countries that have the finance available to fund these activities ; not only funding the research into the solutions but also the financial resources to put them into action all around the world . Poor countries turn to the powerful financial centres such as London and New York to finance large projects , the same will be the case with projects to mitigate climate change . Finally these countries have the expertise to put these new inventions and projects into practice ; they have the experts to work out the best places to build , to advise on building , and make sure the project does not have unintended side effects . As the nations with the greatest capability , developed nations have an increased responsibility to act . 	Developed countries have the greatest capacity to combat climate change .
The most developed nations are also the most powerful in the international community ; they have a duty to lead by example . Even if India and China are rapidly rising the developed countries between them are still the most powerful economies . If developing nations perceive that more developed ones are not acting to combat climate change , they will have no imperative to act . This is because some developing countries such as China or India want to maximize their development capacity in order to compete with developed countries . They are only likely to cut carbon emissions if those developed nations they compete with do so first that way their attempt to compete is not jeopardised . The climate change talks that have achieved relatively little have shown this to be the case China has only shown willing to do a deal if the United States commits itself first . 	Developed countries have a duty to lead by example
When an upper house is directly elected , it will be perceived to be more legitimate by the public , because the public sees their political views directly translated into a legislative branch , albeit in a different way than the lower house . This enhanced legitimacy will help the upper house in performing their constitutional duties : whenever the upper house disagrees with either the lower house or the executive , the upper house can now strengthen their position by pointing to the public support it has . 	A directly elected upper house is more effective .
Democracy means self-governance by the people , wherein citizens have the fundamental right to decide how they are to be governed and by whom . An appointed or indirectly elected upper house violates this principle , because allows a group of individuals to exercise power without having to explain or justify themselves to the public . 	A directly elected upper house is more democratic
Politicians who elect or appoint the members of the upper house have an incentive to put their friends an allies there , because this will make their decision making easier . This is patronage pure and simple : the public will have a hard time sending them away when , if ever , a scandal breaks because the members of the upper house do n't depend on public opinion to remain in their seats . An example is the case of a senator in the Netherlands , Sam Pormes . After an opinion magazine revealed he once had partaken in terrorist activities , it took almost a year and several mediation attempts to get him removed from parliament . 	A directly elected upper house discourages patronage
A failure of the United States to act would motivate Israel to do so . Israel is under much more pressure to act as it would be the most affected by Iran going nuclear . The result would be catastrophic , as Iran would be able to portray itself as a victim of Israeli aggression , leading to a massive outpouring of pro-Iranian and anti-American sentiment in the middle east and central asia . It could easily spark a regional war across the middle east as Iranian proxies strike back against Israel and U.S. forces around the region . The US would get all the harms of direct intervention with none of the benefits , and efforts to fight Hezbollah and Hamas , both within Palestine and elsewhere , would be undermined by their newfound sympathy in the region and the need of Arab governments to pander to it . 	[ Iran specific ] Others , particularly Israel , would act if the United States did not
Iran has explicitly threatened to destroy Israel , President Ahmadinejad described Israel as a `` disgraceful blot '' that should be `` wiped off the face of the earth '' . Such a prospect would be disastrous , not just in its initial consequences , but for the entire region . Even an unsuccessful attack on Israel would provoke a counter strike . The US would take much of the blame for the casualties of such a strike even if it counselled Israel against it . The United States must prevent Iran from ever being able to put such threats into action which may mean having to engage in military action to prevent Iran gaining the capability . 	[ Iran specific ] Iran has threatened to destroy Israel
The Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treatyis one of the lynchpins on which the current Western-led international political and diplomatic order is dependent . Just as any normal legal system requires laws that are predictable and enforceable , so too does the international system . The Non-Proliferation Treaty provides this level of consistency and control over states nuclear assets . In particular , one of those key principles is the assumption that once a country enters a treaty it will abide by its terms . If a country can leave a treaty at will , it means that no policy can be made with any degree of predictability . States are not able to formulate plans for future policies and development strategies if analysts and politicians are prevented from making reliable predictions about neighbouring states behaviour , economic policies and territorial ambitions . This is particularly important with treaties relating to armaments , and of vital importance when it comes to Nuclear Weapons , because other countries choose to participate in military alliances and actions based on such assumptions . Historically , arms build-ups and wars have occurred when the Great Powers fail to uphold the international legal system fail to regard it as binding and inherently valuable and consequential . For example Germanys willingness to disregard Czechoslovakian sovereignty prior to World War II . For that reason the United States has a vested interest in upholding the principles of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty . This is because the US is the major beneficiary of the present international system , both economically and politically . Economically , the major loser in any upheaval around the world is almost guaranteed to be the United States or its corporations . However , the political incentives for the USA to continue upholding the non-proliferation treaty - by force if necessary - are far greater . A failure on its part to act will not just lead to nuclear proliferation , but also undermine other treaties banning chemical weapons and guaranteeing human rights as nations realize they are only pieces of paper . 1 . The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons , 2005 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons -LRB- NPT -RRB- , 1 July 1968 , 2 . Kasprzyk , Nicholas , Nuclear Non-proliferation and Regional Changing Strategic Balances : How Much Will Regional Proliferation Impinge Upon the Future of the NPT ? , in Krause , Joachim and Wenger , Andreas eds . , , 2001 , 	The United States has an obligation to protect international stability due to its unique military strength .
The development of nuclear weapons encourages other countries to develop them as well . Rationally governed states without a nuclear deterrent are unlikely to allow themselves to be placed in a position where a nuclear armed neighbour can mount attacks against them with impunity . They therefore feel that they too need nuclear weapons in order to prevent the new nuclear power from taking advantage of their new capability . For instance , the presence of an Iranian weapon would immediately threaten the Gulf States . Already unable to compete with Iran on a conventional level due to the vast disparity in size and population , states like the UAE would have every reason and motive to develop nuclear weapons as a deterrent . A Saudi Prince actually floated the idea in 2011 that if Iran developed Nuclear Weapons , As more countries develop Nuclear weapons , the likelihood that someone will use them , either deliberately or by accident , goes up substantially . 	The development of nuclear weapons creates a self-perpetuating cycle of proliferation among other states .
Countries tend to go to war not just because they are governed by warmongers and hawkish leaders ; the internal structure of a state often matters little , but because they think they can either gain something from a war , or at least minimise the losses that such a gamble might produce . Under the status quo , if a government lacking nuclear weapons invades a neighbouring country , it may face an invasion itself in the event of defeat , or even international intervention to depose its government . If , however , the government possesses nuclear weapons it can threaten to use them , and thereby deter a counter-invasion or prevent the International community from being able to intervene to depose it . This can be seen in the relative coddling Pakistan has received both from its political and territorial opponent India , and from the United States since its development of Nuclear Weapons . Actions that previously would have led to sanctions or worse , such as aid to the Taliban , assistance to the Nuclear Programs of Rogue States most famously through the A.Q . Kahn network that supplied Libya , Iran and North Korea , and complicity in terrorist attacks in India are brushed off with empty words and meaningless semi-sanctions , India itself is deterred from making any response . Indeed , US policy in recent years has been to try to buy off Pakistan rather than to coerce it . 	The possession of nuclear weapons by some states drives others to militarize , creating arms races .
Even if states do not use nuclear weapons themselves , or attempt to threaten their neighbours , they can sell their technology to other , less savoury states and individuals . This was a particular problem with Pakistan . The former head of the Pakistani nuclear program , AQ Khan , sold technology on detonation mechanisms and Uranium enrichment to North Korea and Iran . Iran is also likely to be willing to pass on its own nuclear information to other states , particularly Assads Syria . Such weapons could also find their way into the hands of terrorists . Iran has close links to Hezbollah and Hamas which it funds substantially , and a strong desire to hurt Israel . North Korea has close links to a number of nasty groups ranging from drug cartels to Islamist terrorists . 	Nuclear weapons can fall into the wrong hands .
Museums preserve and display our artistic , social , scientific and political heritage . Everyone should have access to such important cultural resources as part of active citizenship , and because of the educational opportunities they offer to people of every age . Glenn Lowry , director of the Museum of Modern Art , claims its almost a moral duty that museums should be free -LRB- Smith , 2006 -RRB- . If museums are not funded sufficiently by the government , they will be forced to charge for entry , and this will inevitably deter many potential visitors , especially the poor and those whose educational and cultural opportunities have already been limited . Visitors to the Victoria and Albert Museum in London declined by 13 % after it started charging for admission . Free access is essential to provide freedom of cultural and educational opportunity -LRB- Garrett , 2001 -RRB- . 	Museums preserve and display our heritage and therefore should be accessible to all of the public free of charge
The contributions of government funding have been shown to be capable of sustaining the costs of a museum , preventing those costs being passed on to the public in the form of admissions charges . The examples of the British Labour government funding national museums has been noted above . The National Museum of the American Indian in Washington was set up partially with government funding and partially with private funds , ensuring it has remained free since its opening in 2004 -LRB- Democracy Now , 2004 -RRB- . In 2011 , China also announced that from 2012 all of its national museums would become publicly-funded and cease charging admissions fees -LRB- Zhu & Guo , 2011 -RRB- . 	Museum charges can be offset by government funding
Museums are a crucial source of inspiration and education for our increasingly important creative industries -LRB- e.g . art , design , fashion , and architecture -RRB- . As the Secretary of the National Union of Teachers described , free access means that every child can benefit from the treasure chestregardless of the depth of the parental pocket -LRB- Russell & Taylor , 2007 -RRB- . Free access is an investment in the future of both the education and creative sectors of the economy and therefore has long-term benefits in securing prosperity for the whole of society . Similarly , tourism is an important sector of our economy and many visitors will be deterred from visiting our country if they think it will be very expensive to visit its great museums and galleries . Tourists do contribute hugely to government revenues through the indirect taxes they pay and the jobs they generate , tourism is a 115bn industry , -LRB- BBC News , 2010 -RRB- so free museum access to support the tourism industry is a sensible investment . 	Museums are a crucial source of inspiration and education
Reciprocity is a basic moral principle : afford others the good treatment you yourself would like to receive . In most cases , it is a hypothetical ; one must place oneself in the other persons position even though one will never actually be in their place . However , how donor and non-donors are treated when they themselves are in need is a situation in which reciprocity becomes a practical reality . This principle of reciprocity suggests that people who are willing to donate their organs more deserve to receive organs when they need them . And there is good reason to believe in reciprocity . Those who would flaunt this principle are basically stating that they expect something of other people that they themselves are unwilling to do ; this is a position that is either incoherent , or based on the unjustified premise that oneself is more objectively valuable than other people . The concept of desert has a foundational role in our society . For example , innocent people deserve not to be put in prison , even if it would be useful to frame and make an example of an innocent person in order to quell a period of civil unrest . 	Organ donors are more deserving of organs
The greatest argument for this policy is also the simplest : it will save thousands , perhaps millions of lives . A policy of prioritizing transplants for donors would massively increase the proportion of donors from the status quo of -LRB- at best -RRB- just over 30 % -LCB- Confirmed Organ Donors -RCB- . Given the number of people who die under circumstances that render many of their organs useless , the rate of donor registration must be as high as possible . The overwhelming incentive that this policy would create to register may well eliminate the scarcity for certain organs altogether ; a bonus benefit of this would mean that for organs where the scarcity was eliminated , this policy would not even need to make good on its threat of denial of organs to non-donors -LRB- and even if this happened for every organ and thus reduced the incentive to register as a donor , the number of donors could only fall as far as until there was a scarcity again , thus reviving the incentive to donate until the rate of donation reaches an equilibrium with demand . -RRB- 	Prioritizing donors creates an incentive to become a donor
Organ donation , in all its forms , saves lives . More to the point , it saves lives with almost no loss to the donor . One obviously has no material need for ones organs after death , and thus it does not meaningfully inhibit bodily integrity to incentivize people to give up their organs at this time . If one is registered as an organ donor , every attempt is still made to save their life -LCB- Organ Donation FAQ -RCB- . The state is always more justified in demanding beneficial acts of citizens if the cost to the citizen is minimal . This is why the state can demand that people wear seatbelts , but can not conscript citizens for use as research subjects . Because there is no good reason not to become an organ donor , the state ought to do everything in its power to ensure that people do so . 	People ought to donate their organs anyway
Africa has recently experienced some of the most significant economic growth in the world . Amongst the top ten growing economies in the world are five African countries ; The Gambia , Libya , Mozambique , Sierra Leone , and South Sudan . The latter , South Sudan , witnessed GDP growth of 32 % in 2013 . Other economies in Africa are also doing exceptionally well , such as Ethiopia and Ghana . As ever , natural resources are a key export for these countries . Recent investments from China in exchange for Africas abundant natural resources have enabled many African countries to develop at a significantly faster rate , with trade between the continent and China increasing by $ 155 billion . All of this has contributed to an average GDP growth of 4.8 % in the past ten years . There is a rapidly expanding middle-class and it is predicted that by 2015 there will be over 100 million Africans living on $ 3,000 a year , showing an increasingly positive future for Africa . 	Africas Economies are growing rapidly
Human development index -LRB- HDI -RRB- indicators are used to assess levels of life expectancy , education and income indices throughout the world . The majority of African states have seen an improvement in these scores since 2001 , and are predicted to continue this trend . Some African states , such Seychelles , Libya and Tunisia , are in the High Human Development category and are positioned in the top 100 for HDI indicators , an improvement from 1990 . Life expectancy has increased by 10 % on the continent and infant mortality has decreased as well , thanks to the greater availability of mosquito nets and the attention given to HIV/AIDS . Education is seen as a cornerstone to growth as it allows the quicker attainment of the skills required for knowledge-intensive industries -LRB- such as agriculture and services -RRB- , which will in turn lead to greater development . The level of literacy in Africa has seen an increase in reports on human development from 2001 and 2011 . Finally , levels of poverty throughout Africa have generally decreased , including in notable countries such as Ghana and Zimbabwe . 	Human development indicators have significantly improved in recent years .
Foreign investment into Africa has seen a large increase in recent years , which has enabled Africa to invest significant amounts of funding in to infrastructure , jobs creation and acquisition of technology . In Kenya , Uganda and Tanzania , foreign businesses account for a much larger percentage of employment than any domestic firm , hence increasing the standard of living for a greater number of people . FDI has gone from $ 15 billion in 2002 to $ 37 billion in 2006 and $ 46 billion in 2012 . The vast majority of this investment is based on extractive industries such as agriculture and raw resources . However , Africa has recently seen an increase in FDI for manufacturing and services as well . Central Africa alone received $ 10 billion in 2012-3 , due to an increased interest in the DRCs copper-cobalt mines . The sources of this FDI vary , but China has become the major investor in the region , with investment rising from $ 11 billion to $ 166 billion in the past decade . China has helped build vast infrastructure projects in return for natural resources and food for its growing population . 	Foreign Direct Investment to the continent has increased
Democratic peace theory is the proposition that democratic states do not fight interstate wars against each other . And so far the empirical evidence is strong . It has been suggested that democratic peace is really liberal peace that relies less on simply having democracy -LRB- although that is likely to be a part -RRB- but upon liberal values such as rule of law , human rights , and free markets . Inboden argues that this should include religious freedom creating a religious-freedom peace . Essentially states that share these liberal values will be unwilling to go to war with each other precisely because they are tolerant of difference ; if they are tolerant of difference internally then external tolerance with other countries that are tolerant even if they as a majority are a totally different religion . Tolerance means that religion can no longer be a point of anything more serious than diplomatic conflict . 	Religious pluralism creates a more tolerant and peaceful society
While there are often worries about allowing too much religious freedom in pluralistic countries and concern about the extremist agitation this sometimes allows in practice restricting religious freedoms leads to much more conflict than openness and tolerance . Brian J. Grimm and Roger Finke show that from 2000 to 2007 of 143 countries with populations over 2 million 123 countries -LRB- 86 % -RRB- have documented cases of people being physically abused or displaced because of religious persecution . With more than 10,000 affected in 25 countries . This is because countries with higher levels of government favouritism of religion have a much higher level of social hostilities . It is notable that the propensity for civil war is very high where there is very little religious freedom , for example Afghanistan or Mali , and similarly terrorist groups predominantly come from the same countries . While conflict in other countries may not be considered a problem for other countries in practice when a country falls into civil war , as Libya did in 2011 and Syria in 2012 , they become the major foreign policy issues requiring reaction even from powers that are distant from the conflict . Rising Tide of Restrictions on Religion , , 20 September 2012 , 	Restrictions on religious freedom creates conflict
There is a strong correlation between states that are religiously intolerant and those that are a threat to other states and the international order . In 1999 Burma , China , Iran , Iraq , and Sudan were designated as countries of particular concern with regards to religious freedom . Also the Taliban and Serbia were also included and Saudi Arabia and North Korea were countries where religious freedoms may be suppressed . All of these are countries are countries which over the next decade were to one way or another become major security concerns and several of them involved in conflicts with the United States and other countries . As William Inboden notes Those actors with the most egregious religious-freedom violations are remarkably consonant with those that pose a potential threat to the United States and its interests ... Stated simply : There is not a single nation in the world that both respects religious freedom and poses a security threat to the United States . Religious freedom therefore should be much higher up the priority list in terms of foreign policy . 	It is religiously intolerant states that pose most threat
The point of animal research is that animals are harmed . Even if they dont suffer in the experiment , almost all are killed afterwards . With 115 million animals used a year this is a big problem . Releasing medical research animals in to the wild would be dangerous for them , and they would not be usable as pets . -LSB- 4 -RSB- . The only solution is that they are wild from birth . It is obvious that its not in the interest of animals to be killed or harmed . Research should be banned in order to prevent the deaths of millions of animals . 	Animal research causes severe harm to the animals involved
Most countries have animal welfare laws to prevent animal cruelty but have laws like the UKs Animals -LRB- Scientific Procedures -RRB- Act 1986 , -LSB- 10 -RSB- that stop animal testing being a crime . This makes means some people can do things to animals , but not others . If the government are serious about animal abuse , why allow anyone to do it ? 	It would send out a consistent message
Its possible to think of people that cant suffer , like those in a persistent vegetative state , or with significant intellectual disabilities . We could go for one of three options . Either we could experiment on animals , but not such people , which is morally not consistent . We could allow both , but do we want to do painful medical research on the disabled ? Or , we could do neither . -LSB- 9 -RSB- 	Most animals can suffer more than some people
One of the major barriers of the UK entering a team into the Olympics has been gaining the permission of FIFA , whose stance has traditionally been that the UK can not play as separate nations in FIFA and UEFA football tournaments and then come together for the Olympics as one team , they must be either entirely together or entirely separate . However as the 2012 Olympics are being held in London , FIFA has officially sanctioned the creation of a one-off UK team for the 2012 Olympics only . Sepp Blatter , the FIFA President , has personally stated ' a British Olympic football team would not affect at all the privileges of the four British associations as members of FIFA ' . The barriers of creating a UK team then are therefore lower than ever and it should be acted upon . The Act of Union demonstrated the nations of the UK can pull together , and for this one-off UK-based event the footballing associations should put their differences aside and seize this opportunity while the barriers to its creation remain historically low . If there is any attempt in the future to use this union as proof that the nations should permanently join , the independent football bodies would simply be able to point to or lean on FIFA 's permission ; the explicit sanctioning of the UK team for London 2012 is all the assurance necessary to compete without fear of repercussions . 	With the 2012 Olympics being held in London the practical hurdles for creating a UK team are lower than ever .
The Olympic Creed states that `` The most important thing in the Olympic Games is not to win but to take part , just as the most important thing in life is not the triumph but the struggle . The essential thing is not to have conquered but to have fought well . '' As the UK is the host nation of the Olympics in 2012 it should now , more than any other time really follow this creed and take part in all the events particularly as they have the opportunity to do so having got automatic qualification for all the events ; not doing so would be undermine the Olympic ideal . A UK football team would be good for national unity . By giving all 60 million people in Great Britain and Northern Ireland the same team to cheer for , it will make them feel more united . Since 1997 Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland have been given a lot of political power over their own affairs . This is good but there is a danger that we lose sight of our common British identity and the government is keen to find ways of promoting Britishness , including a British football team . 	Having a UK football team at the Olympics will be good for national unity and demonstrates the Olympic spirit
Due to the rules around Olympic Football in regards to qualifying , which make it impossible for the United Kingdom to qualify , this is a once in a lifetime opportunity for footballers of the UK to play Olympic Football . To enter the event there is a qualification round , in Europe the UEFA Under-21 Championship event is not only a stand-alone competition it is also used for Olympic qualification ; as UK nations enter this competition as separate teams it means that the UK can not normally enter the Olympic event as they would technically have four chances to qualify whereas each other country has only one . However , as the UK is the host nation of the 2012 Olympics it gains automatic qualification for all the events at the games , including football , which it would usually be illegible to enter . The home nations should pull together and enter a unified team to the Olympics as it is quite literally a once in a lifetime opportunity to have any team from the UK playing Olympic Football , to not enter a team despite having qualification is quite unheard of and as the UK is the home of football it would be a vast disappointment if the UK did not enter . The Olympics is meant to represent the top of each sport and for the UK not to enter a team for what is the most popular sport in the country seems an odd state of affairs . 	The United Kingdom should field a team in each Olympic competition
Rather than adopting a ` right now ' attitude to government policies on taxes and spending , individuals would be more likely to think about the long-term consequences of government policy knowing that their future is directly tied to the financial future of their children . This short term thinking has become a serious problem meaning there are big holes in pension funds and the government may not have enough to pay for elderly care in the future . For example Sir Derek Wanless has warned that the amount spent by government , individuals and organizations in Britain on caring for the sick and disabled elderly will increase from 10 billion a year to 20 billion a year by 2026 . -LRB- cost of caring for the elderly set to double , -RRB- Therefore voters would support financially sensible policies that avoid increasing deficits and national debt . 	Everyone would benefit from choosing policies that think about the long-term future .
Current policies are obviously not working . Increased life expectancy and badly thought out pension provisions mean that an increasing number of old people fall into poverty . In a recent survey in the UK 57 % of people interviewed were concerned that the pensions of their elderly relatives would not be sufficient to sustain them for the rest of their lives . The elderly need to be provided for , and as the state is struggling , children must step forward and fill this void . 1 . ` What is EPRSS ? ' , Elderlyparents.org.uk 	Current pension measures are not enough to provide for the elderly .
The law would legislated so that it is fair to all . When looking at cases the courts would inevitably make children pay in proportion to their means so the rich have to pay more than the poor , but the state could also help those who are too poor to support their parents . The policy will therefore aid the poorest members of society . Parents who are not well off and will spend most of their income caring for their children will be ones most at risk of suffering from poverty in their old age . This law would ensure that these people are cared for adequately . Moreover , judicial oversight can be used to make sure the application of the law is fair , that a parent cant make a claim if they have abandoned , neglected or abused their children , or if the children themselves are too poor to support the elderly parent . 	Judicial oversight can make sure the law is implemented fairly .
Everybody should have a responsibility to each other . The elderly , as a social group , have been largely neglected by society . By starting at grass roots , legalizing the responsibility of the young to look after the old , would benefit society in general and promote the respect of the elderly . Elderly people are equal citizens with equal rights , they deserve to have enough money for a secure and decent life in retirement with access to the health and social care that they need . Yet more and more old people are dying each year of malnutrition or freezing to death in their homes : over the last five years there has been an increase in winter deaths by 25,000 every year - this is unacceptable . Although commitments to the rights of older people do exist , for example the Madrid International Plan of Action on Ageing , they are not legally binding , more needs to be done to ensure that the care of the elderly is adopted as a legal priority by governments and by whole communities ; this law would be the first step in that process . . See also . . 	Creates a community where everyone feels a social commitment to the elderly .
This law would give parents a greater stake in their child 's education and development . Rather than being concerned with saving for later life they will want to think about the future and long term prospects of their children . Similarly a child would be legally responsible for the well being of their parent past adulthood , encouraging children to think more carefully about the decisions they make in regards to care . The stark figures that between 2005 and 2009 , 667 elderly people died from dehydration in care homes and 157 died of malnutrition suggest that children neglect their parents in terms of ensuring they are placed in adequate care . Passing a law would ensure that this no longer happens and family ties between generations would be strengthened . , Daily Mail -LRB- 31 January 2011 -RRB- , viewed on 19 June 2011 . 	Parents would have a greater stake in their child 's future and children would be directly responsible for their parent 's well-being .
Even if the state is never overthrown anarchism will always have something important to say . Anarchist groups were at the forefront of resistance groups in world war two , and today they are at the forefront of protests against the state whenever it tries to take even more from the worst off in society , for example in anti cuts protests in the UK . Anarchist communities like Freetown Christiana in Copenhagen exist as centres of peace and culture , by standing outside of society it provides a useful commentary on society as well as being an example for how people can live more freely without a state . 	Even in societies with a state , anarchist groups provide a voice for the oppressed .
Even if we ignore all of the totalitarian regimes in the world , democracies do not truly represent the people . Politicians all too often promise progressive changes and then fail to deliver , for example Obamas failure to close Guantanamo Bay and Nick Clegg breaking his promises over tuition fees The interests of politicians in democracies are far too often tied to the interests of the rich and powerful ; people like Rupert Murdoch have unprecedented access to politicians which is quite simply not available to the average person Demographically heads of state are very rarely representative , The USA has never had a female or Hispanic president , the UK has never had a non white Prime Minister and 66 % of UK ministers have been privately educated . These people can never truly have the peoples interests at heart . 	States are never truly representative of the people .
There is nothing that states provide for us that we can not provide for ourselves by working together as communities . All the state seeks to do is oppress the people , forcing us to obey laws and pay taxes we did not consent to . In many cases the state goes out of its way to deprive people of their basic needs , for instance when the state evicts squatters from houses that were being left unused , the UK for example is moving to criminalize squatting ; or when the state has property laws that keep wealth in the hands of the few whilst the many struggle to survive as has been the case in the United States , particularly in the 19 Century when President Hayes argued There can be no republican institutions with vast masses of property permanently in a few hands , and large masses of voters without property . 	The state is a meaningless metaphysical entity that is unnecessary and indeed detrimental for our lives .
The state has , throughout history , been responsible for an immeasurable amount of violence and destruction . From ancient times where states were the primary instrument of enforcing laws so that people could keep slaves , to the actions of imperial nations like Britain , to the holocaust to all of the pointless wars fought throughout history , states have a long record of slaughtering and ruining the lives of countless numbers of their own and other states people . William Eckhardt estimates battle deaths since 3000 BC at 151million while Beer came out with a much higher figure of 1.1 billion battle deaths -LRB- NB both use dodgy calculations and of course in either case the total military deaths let alone civilian would be much higher -RRB- . These actions are always taken because they are in the interest of the ruling class , but the ruling classes are never the ones directly involved in these conflicts , they instead use the state as an instrument to coerce other people to fight their battles for them . In a stateless society the people might need to fight against oppression but they would never be forced to fight for causes that have nothing to do with them . 	The state has far too often been an instrument for facilitating wars and other acts of violence .
Forcing people into community action , as the state tries to do , detracts from real community action . People naturally try to help one another out and do what they can for their communities but when the state tries to undertake this action itself it always wastes a huge amount or resources and sends the message that the job is done . In a stateless society people would know that they have a responsibility to care for their fellow man and take all the steps they possibly can to do so . This action will be more direct , enthusiastic and relevant than any taken by the government because those organising it will inevitably be in closer contact and have more of a stake with the problems they are trying to solve . 	Community action is a more powerful tool than the state for providing goods .
There is a long history of voter impersonation throughout the United States , where there have been varying levels of identification laws . In their book , Dirty Little Secrets : The Persistence of Corruption in American Politics , Larry Sabato and Glenn Simpson write , `` For much of the last century and a good part of this century , elections in many states and localities became contests of the voting fraud capacities of various factions and parties . '' They go on to cite many cases of fraud throughout history , from New York City in 1844 to California in 1996 . One recent example of voter fraud was in 2010 in the U.K. , where identification is not required , when the Daily Mail published claims of a `` massive postal-vote rigging , '' and a journalist for the Independent was allegedly beat while investigating fraud in eastern London . Voter fraud not only interferes with individual elections , but also undermines voter confidence in representative government generally . Identification requirements are the most direct and effective way of combating election fraud . As such , states have a compelling interest in implementing these laws . Even in cases where evidence of voter fraud has not yet been proven , it can logically be assumed that an electoral system will have more integrity if voters are required to show identification . Regardless of actual cases of voter fraud , a system with identification laws will encourage higher voter turnout , because citizens will perceive the system as having more integrity . Voter fraud exists , but evidence of its occurrence in the specific place where voter identification requirements are being considered is not necessary in order to justify the new laws ; voters should have to identify themselves no matter what . . 	Voter identification laws are necessary to combat the serious danger of voter fraud .
In the United States , there are currently very different identification requirements for voting from state to state , meaning that people often lose their vote when they change their place of residence . All states could require a photo ID , or the country could adopt a national voter identification standard , based on the 2008 federal standards for American driving licenses -LRB- often called the `` Real ID Card '' -RRB- . These actions would ensure against voter fraud and make it easier for people to maintain an active citizenship . In addition to cutting down on lost votes , this system would make the electoral process more legitimate in the eyes of the public , a factor that could itself raise voter turnout . 	Requiring voter identification is a practical way of combating the bureaucratic errors and logistical barriers that cause votes to go uncounted .
People are already required to produce valid identification for a whole range of activities that are less important than casting a vote , such as going to the gym or buying a drink . Why is voting the only activity where we make it easy to cheat the system ? The claims that voter identification laws are discriminatory , or that they would discourage people from voting are silly because so many aspects of everyday life require photo identification , that this would not realistically discourage people from voting . 	It should not be easier to cheat the electoral process than it is to cheat the many everyday activities that require identification .
Studies have shown that nearly 100 countries around the world have photo identification requirements for voting , so the USA would not be unique in asking its citizens to provide proof of their identity at the polling station . This also suggests that it is not too difficult to organise voting IDs , as democracies much poorer than the United States succeed in doing so . Former U.S. President Jimmy Carter , who is currently Co-Chair of the Commission on Federal Election Reform , is a Democrat who supports voter identification laws . He points out , Mexico and most poor democracies in the world have been able to register and give IDs to almost all their citizens . Indeed , it is bizarre to many election experts around the world that the United Kingdom and many parts of the United States do not require identification . Innocent Chukwuma , an election monitor who has observed elections in Nigeria and the UK said , of the UK system , If you had this system in Nigeria , the outsiders would say the potential for abuse would be massive . Meanwhile voter identification has been a challenge worth meeting for most of the world . Even Indiaby far the largest democracy in the worldcreated in 2009 the Unique Identification Authority of India -LRB- UIDAI -RRB- , which will provide a national identity card to all Indians , which they can use at polling stations . Countries around the world have set the standard by proving that voter identification laws are practical ways of improving the integrity of elections . Those countries that have not yet adopted the system should do so . 	Requiring voter identification is the proven international standard .
One inhibitor to democratic development is not only the inability to overthrow a leader , but the feeling that without any external support , efforts to create democracy will be entirely futile . Interventions from the international community can be important signals of support to domestic , democratic movements . This means that foreign intervention does not have to be on its own , it is much easier to set up a functioning government after the intervention if there are strong native groups involved from the start . The intervention in Libya was organized by Western powers including the US and UK in an effort to support and protect the people calling for democracy and looking to bring justice to Libya . While the conflict in Libya is still going on , the rebel movement has not petered out , and the likelihood of success has been strengthened by international support and help . Interventions can present the necessary support for already present democratic movements to be successful , and can also provide guidance for establishing democratic institutions . For example the United States has helped Afghanistan organize democratic elections and a centralized government , which on their own they likely would have been unable to do . 	Interventions show external support , strengthening local democratic movements .
Often for democracy to take hold , countries need other logistical and development help . Education and literacy are important for a functioning democracy because only with the ability to acquire and analyze information can people make informed decisions about candidates . There need to be roads and buildings so that people can get to the polls and information can reach more rural areas . It is essential that a rule of law , and thus laws , prisons , and courthouses , and free press are established . All of this can be very expensive and require a fair amount of coordination . Interventions give countries a stake in the country they have invaded and thus push them to make the necessary investments to create a functioning democratic state . While Afghanistan is not democratic yet , US development has been very important in its changing political landscape . In 2001 , 900,000 boys and no girls were enrolled in school in Afghanistan , today 7 million children , 35 % of whom are girls , are going to school . 5 million people have been lifted from extreme poverty as GDP per capita has doubled . The economy is growing at 10 % with government revenue at 1.65 billion dollars , and a stable currency is being used across the country . The US has given 18.8 billion dollars of foreign aid to Afghanistan and has made some progress that without the intervention likely would not have been executed or successfully allocated . 	Interventions lead to the necessary actions for nation-building .
Some governments are so oppressive , that even though people want democracy they have no power to effectively ask for it . Thousands have been protesting in Bahrain and their leader will not bendsome people simply dont have the leverage or force to push their government out . In these cases interventions can be effective . The first step to democratic formation is removing the dictatorial , undemocratic leaders . As long as a strong-man leader is at the helm of the state , democracy can not flourish . After its intervention in 2003 , Iraqi people celebrated the fall of Saddam Hussein , their dictatorial leader who had killed thousands of people . Iraq in 2010 held parliamentary elections that despite some violence and other problems had a large turnout and were arguably the most transparent , fair , democratic elections in the countrys modern history . The first step was removing Saddam from power through an intervention , which has put Iraq on the road to democracy . Intervening countries need to be careful to work with the local populations , and minimize civilian casualties , but as long as caution is used this tactic can be successful . 	Interventions depose unjust leaders that the people might not have the power to overthrow .
The resolution is not country specific and it is therefore worth examining the potential effect of interventions on countries that only witnessed the intervention , but were not part of it . When a country intervenes in another , the intervening party is making it clear that undemocratic behavior is unacceptable and oppression of citizens is not without consequences . NATO intervened in Libya under the responsibility to protect clause of the United Nations charter . The intervention sends a message to the rest of the countries in the region with restless populations , that their oppression will not be tolerated and thus incentivizes democratic reform . It not only makes clear to a single country that democracy is vital , but shows the rest of the world the priorities of the intervening country or group of countries . 	Incentivizes democratic development in other countries as well .
Child performers are currently protected by laws about all sorts of things from the minimum amount of education they may get to their pay and how many hours they can work . Many of these laws would be much more difficult to enforce than a blanket ban . It would be simple to enforce as child performers would in most cases be easy to spot as they are performing for the public . The government could then bring charges against those who are employing the child and fine them . 	Just as the state creates laws to protect child performers it could ban child performers
Child performers are exposed to a much higher level of responsibility than their peers , without the maturity to deal with it . They may be exposed to sex , drugs , or alcohol , in a context too far removed from a normal life that they dont learn adequate coping mechanisms . It is no surprise that many child performers burn out by the time they reach adulthood , often experiencing problems long before , as in the case of actress Drew Barrymore , who entered rehab at the age of 13 . Children should not be encouraged to enter into these adult worlds of acting , modeling , dancing , etc . . Michael Jackson attributed his obsession with children and childhood as a consequence of having missed out on a childhood himself . Barrymore , Little Girl Lost 	Allowing children to perform pushes them to grow up too soon
Children involved at a professional level in sports are at a higher risk than their peers of physical problems like breaking bones . In some cases , these physical problems can be fatal ; e.g . , Julissa Gomez , who died from complications of a vaulting injury contracted when she was 15 in warm-ups for a gymnastics competition . Even in careers like acting and dancing there are risks for child performers . Actors and dancers are usually encouraged to stay thin , often to an unhealthy degree . Because children are particularly vulnerable , they are more susceptible to the perils of over-exercising for athletes and eating disorders for performers . It has been found , for example , that girls who dance in their childhood are more likely than their peers to develop anorexia nervosa in later life . Lena Zavaroni , the childhood winner of opportunity knocks in the 1970s , struggled with eating disorders for all of her life and died aged 34 . With the damage eating disorders can do to a persons body , it should be illegal to expose children to such risks . 	Being a performer can make the child physically vulnerable
Even experienced adults can find it difficult to deal with stage fright or performance anxiety . Children , more emotionally vulnerable than adults by nature , should not be exposed to this sort of pressure . This is especially true in situations where the child is being paid for their performance , since the added necessity to perform well can lead to even more pressure . Although suicide among children is rare , it is believed often to occur as a result of the child feeling like she is under too much pressure , or failing to meet the expectations of others . There are also consequences that continue long past the child has stopped performing ; former child actors often have the problem as young adults as feeling as having already peaked and find themselves without a sense of drive or ambition or a coherent adult identity , consequentially they often suffer from substance abuse and addiction 	It is unethical to expose children to the pressures of performing
Children are generally considered to be too young to make important decisions for themselves , and so decision-making falls to parents , teachers , etc . . For child performers , there are additional decision-makers : their agents . Since agents benefit financially from the childs getting a role or doing well in a sporting event , there is a definite risk of exploitation . Exploitation can also come from parents , as in the famous case of American television child stars Jackie Coogan and Gary Coleman , who both sued their parents for spending the money they had earned as children or of Macaulay Culkin , who blocked his parents from having access to his earnings . 	performers are at risk of exploitation
Spending so much time either performing or training limits the amount of formal education the child can receive . For example , in the UK and other countries , child performers are only required to be educated for three hours each day . Additionally , the focus on the specialised skill of the child -LRB- e.g . , acting , dancing , etc . -RRB- may detract from their familys or their own interest in formal education . 	Being a performer limits a childs formal education
We already give films , DVD 's and games an age appropriate rating . In the United States , the Motion Picture Association of America is charged with the responsibility of providing ratings to consumers . It would seem that it would be simple to stretch these criteria to a similar music body . Therefore people would only be subjected to violent lyrics when it is deemed they are old enough to hear or buy this material , and it would stop younger people from being exposed to this kind of music . This also means that no new state-run institution needs to be created ; it would operate , like the MPAA , independently of government control . As such , claims that any form of music censorship would suffer from practical problems are short-sighted , we simply need to extend the medium that already exists . 	It would be easy to apply restrictions on music .
Asha Jennings began a boycott of misogynistic music in hip-hop , resulting in the ` take back the music ' campaign supported by essence magazine . Jennings claims that this type of rap / hip hop music is ` telling people -LSB- black women -RSB- are bitches and hos and sluts and not worthy of respect -LSB- ... -RSB- And that 's exactly how society is treating us ' . She continues that images of women ` tends to be objectified , degrading , very stripper-like ' or as nagging vicious and manipulative money grabbers . Jennings ' worry is that in these videos women are depicted as menial , subservient and purely as the object of men 's entertainment . The lyrics that go with these music videos compound these ideas of women as undeserving of male respect e.g . ` would n't piss on fire to put you out ' -LRB- Eminem -RRB- , ` Then I straight smoked the ho -LSB- ... -RSB- and she thanked me ' -LRB- NWE -RRB- -LRB- All lyrics in full are in the scrapbook -RRB- . These images in themselves are violence towards women , as they dehumanise them . As this becomes a dominant image in society , young people who look up to these rappers mimic their behaviour and believe it is ok to disrespect women , as that is what they have been exposed to . This works in the same way for young girls , who can not relate to the male rappers and so instead mimic the women they talk about , while also following their views on women . This idea that women are not deserving of respect must affect the levels of violence towards women as if you abuse someone you can not fully respect them . Therefore if music depicting violence -LRB- and for this argument , disrespect -RRB- towards women was banned , then violence towards women in the real world would be reduced and this must be seen as a good thing . 	Music depicting violence against women encourages men ( and women ) not to respect women .
Music depicting violence to women causes and sustains the cycle of violence . The Scottish Home Affairs correspondent Lucy Adams reported in 2005 the levels of domestic abuse committed by 16-18 year olds grew by around 70 % . One of the reasons suggested for this dramatic raise is the culture of music that depicts and glorifies violence towards women -LRB- heraldscotland.com -RRB- . Journal of Personality and Social Psychology reports that a study conducted in a variety of US states illustrated that music that depicted acts of violence ` led to more aggressive interpretations of ambiguously aggressive words , increased the relative speed with which people read aggressive vs. nonaggressive words , -LSB- ... -RSB- The violent songs increased feelings of hostility without provocation or threat ' . Although they are quick to assure that it is NOT the music type that has this affect , it is simply the lyrics , as even humorous aggressive songs have this effect . They conclude with the idea that ` Repeated exposure to violent lyrics may contribute to the development of an aggressive personality ' and thus lead to more aggressive behaviour . While currently there is little to no research specifically on the link between domestic violence and lyrics that depict abuse to women , the current information that we have on violence and music lyrics suggests we can expect a similar effect . Thus if we were to ban music depicting violence towards women , people could not be influenced by it and levels of violence would drop . 	Music depicting violence to women causes and sustains the cycle of violence .
While music depicting violence towards women appears on the surface to only demean women , it can be offensive and degrading to a range of people . One popular culture reference to a situation like this comes from the British television show called The Office , in the episode ` Merger ' . In this episode the character David Brent tells a racist joke and while this did not offend the black character present , many other characters were still offended by this joke . People may be offended by the ideas behind the music , as it seems that people who glorify violence towards women in song appear to think that this violence is acceptable . Men could be offended by these ideas just as much as women might . As songs like this become ` mainstream ' in some cultures , everybody in that culture becomes affected by it , and some men and women may feel degraded by this association . Finally some people may argue that the person who writes and/or sings lyric that depict violence towards women degrade themselves in this act . 	This type of music is degrading to everyone , not just women .
Advertising towards children can not be considered ethical as children have not yet fully developed their mental cognition . They lack the complete toolset to view advertising critically and advertisers take advantage of this , disregarding any negative effects it may have on children and society more generally . What must be remembered is advertising is sometimes much more subtle than commercial breaks on television . It can be found in many more places ; advertisers target children in schools , online with content such as product-branded games and also via product placement to name but a few examples . These types of advertising are much harder for children to be critical of as they are less overt ; with product placement even often evading the direct attention of adult viewers . In a consultation by the Royal College of Nursing , regarding product placement , it is stated that `` children are already susceptible to advertising messages and may not have the media literacy required to recognize adverts which take place during programming '' What this amounts to then is manipulation of children who are vulnerable to such messages . Trying to get children to become `` cradle-to-grave '' customers is highly unethical . 	It is not ethical to advertise towards children as they can not critically engage with the communication .
Advertising aimed at children brings negative social consequences , as much of it is for food and drinks that are very unhealthy with James Rouse stating that in the US over $ 10 billion is spent annually advertising fast food towards children . Encouraging gullible children to consume so much fatty , sugary and salty food is unethical because it creates obese , unhealthy youngsters , with bad eating habits that will be with them for life . Society also has to pay a high price in terms of the extra medical care such children will eventually require , so the government has a direct interest in preventing advertisements which contribute to this problem . 	Advertising towards children can be exploitative and encourage poor habits
Advertising specifically to children is unethical because they have little or no money of their own and have to persuade their parents to buy the products for them . Rather than advertising directly to parents , companies use a `` nag and whine '' campaign that leads to hostility between parents and children . They rely on pester power to make adults spend money they do n't have on things they do n't want to buy , and which their children may well only play with for a few hours for example . Advertising which presents products to children as `` must-have '' is also socially divisive , making children whose parents can not afford them appear inferior , and creating feelings of frustration and inadequacy , as well as leading families into debt . 	Advertising towards children is unethical as they do not have their own money to purchase the goods
There is a good precedent for banning advertising aimed at children in the restrictions placed in most countries upon advertising tobacco and alcohol . It also takes a stand against increasingly exploitative marketing campaigns that ruthlessly target children . In the USA marketing companies are already offering schools free televisions in exchange for their students being forced to watch a certain amount of programming and advertisements each day , and selling marketing data on those children . It is time that childhood was protected from such commercialization . Such a ban would be limited such as being only preventing advertising aimed at children rather than an outright attempt to stop children from seeing adverts . Companies could therefore still advertise their children 's products if they aim their adverts at the parents rather than the children . Alternatively the ban could be preventing advertising at times when children are most likely to be watching the television as has happened in Sweden . 	There is precedent for putting restrictions on advertising
There is considerable evidence that women 's attractiveness is judged more harshly than men 's . For example , in a study by Adams and Huston , 1975 , participants were asked to rate the attractiveness of photographs of people of varying ages . They found that although attractiveness ratings of both men and women declined with age , the rate of decline for women was greater . Researchers report that womens magazines have ten and one-halftimes more ads and articles promoting weight loss than mens magazines do , and over three-quarters of the covers of womens magazines include at least one message about how to change a womans bodily appearanceby diet , exercise or cosmetic surgery . These views about appearance are damaging because it leads to seriously unhealthy lifestyles that women think they need to look beautiful . For example , in 2003 , Teen magazine reported that 35 per cent of girls 6 to 12 years old have been on at least one diet , and that 50 to 70 per cent of normal weight girls believe they are overweight . Cosmetic surgery sends the message that the prejudices some have about appearance are valid . 	The availability of cosmetic surgery increases pressures on women that they must look beautiful .
The compulsion to change one 's body is often a symptom of a deeper mental instability . It should be treated as a problem , not encouraged with surgery . Research indicating that breast augmentation patients are four times more likely to commit suicide compared to other plastic surgery patients raises questions about the mental health of women who choose implants . It 's only a plaster patched over a much deeper problem . There are also studies that show negative psychological effects on patients after their surgery has been completed . For example , a recent analysis 37 studies on patients ' psychological and psychosocial functioning before and after cosmetic surgery by social worker Roberta Honigman and psychiatrists Katherine Phillips , MD , and David Castle , MD , found several predictors of poor outcomes , especially for those who hold unrealistic expectations or have a history of depression and anxiety . The researchers found that patients who are dissatisfied with surgery may request repeat procedures or experience depression and adjustment problems , social isolation , family problems , self-destructive behaviours and anger towards the surgeon and his or her staff . American Psychiatric Association . Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders -LRB- 4th ed . -RRB- . Arlington , Va : American Psychiatric Association Press ; 2000 . available at -LRB- accessed 11/6/2011 -RRB- 	Cosmetic surgery can be psychologically damaging
The state of Queensland in Australia has a ban on teenagers having plastic surgery . This prevents anyone under 18 having cosmetic surgery unless it is to correct deformities or disfiguring injuries , as well as allowing for procedures to improve medical , psychological or social well-being . This potentially leaves difficulty drawing the line for what is allowed . A much more comprehensive ban would avoid this . Cosmetic surgery is already to some extent regulated . In the UK it is regulated by the GMC and practising surgeons have to be enrolled on its specialist register . At the same time all invasive cosmetic surgery and laser treatments are regulated . A healthcare commission inspects all registered establishments and can revoke licences . As such it would not be difficult to expand these regulating bodies to be making sure that cosmetic surgery is only performed when as in Queensland it is to correct deformities and disfiguring injuries . '' > , Childs , Dan , Australian State Bans Cosmetic Surgery for Teens , -LRB- accessed 25/8/2011 -RRB- 	An outright ban would be easier than the partial bans that have been enacted in some places .
Sometimes we must accept those dangers , as they come in the course of necessary medical procedures . But with elective surgery procedures people dont need , but rather merely want the risks cant be justified . These risks apply both to the surgery itself , and to the long term . For example , leaking silicone breast implants have been a widespread problem and can lead to death . Silicone gel can leak from the implant into healthy breast tissue and go other parts of your body , such as the lungs and lymph nodes , where it could be impossible to remove.Studies published in 2001 by scientists at the National Cancer Institute raised questions about the long-term safety of breast implants . One study found that women who had breast implants for at least eight years were twice as likely to die from brain cancer , three times as likely to die from lung cancer or other respiratory diseases , and four times as likely to commit suicide , compared to other plastic surgery patientsA second study found that women with breast implants for at least eight years were 21 % more likely to be diagnosed with cancer compared to other women their age . There is also the risk that the person having the surgery will be dissatisfied with the results . 	The dangers involved in elective surgery are not worth the risk
Only those that can pay for it get it . The most popular surgeries include breast augmentation , liposuction , nasal surgery , eyelid surgery and abdominoplasty . There surgeries cost between 3,000 and 5000 , between 2,500 and 6,000 , between 3,500 and 4,000 and between 2,000 to 6,000 respectively . So if it has the advantages the opposition claims , the rich will look good , and the poor will not . 	Cosmetic surgery is unfair , for only those who can afford it have access to it
Technology has been proven to work across a wide range of sports from tennis , cricket and rugby . A survey of its implementation in the 2011 Australian Open demonstrates the impact that guaranteeing correct decisions had on several games . It has become a natural aid to sport . GLT would only be used on a goal decision , much like tennis uses challenges only once a rally has stopped . Football is no more fluid a sport than any of the others . If a debatable goal were scored , play would stop anyway while one team celebrates and the other protests to the officials . 	GLT is used across a range of other sports
Goals are the ultimate measure of success in football ; technology would reduce the risk of teams losing matches unfairly due to controversial decisions -LRB- see FIFA World Cup Quarter Final 2010 England v Germany -RRB- . There is no reason to expose referees to criticism , threats and derision when we have the means to help them . GLT is a tool meant to assist referees in their decisions , not undermine them . Howard Webb has added his voice to the pro-technology debate : `` anything that makes my job easier , that makes me more credible , I 've an open mind to . We are still using human opinion in those decisions and maybe on a matter of fact like the goal-line some technology might be the way forward . I personally prefer it when there is no debate about the referees . It 's a difficult position , -LSB- to judge over the line -RSB- . It 's at speed , and it ai n't easy . Sometimes I feel in a less than privileged position by not having the opportunity -LSB- to use technology -RSB- but that 's where we are . It 's for other people to decide where that argument goes . '' Currently , referees are condemned for making honest mistakes when they have not done anything deliberately wrong . There will always be human error when subjective decisions must be made ; this can not be eradicated but we have a responsibility to minimise the risk . GLT may not change many games but its focus is about consistency and quality assurance . 	Technology is more reliable than human judgement
Football is moving into the twenty-first century , yet the refusal to embrace GLT is completely out-dated . Nowhere in FIFA policy does it state that referees can not use the influence of technology . In FIFAs disciplinary code -LRB- 2009 -RRB- , Article 72 states that : 1 -RRB- `` During matches , disciplinary decisions are taken by the referee '' , and 2 -RRB- `` These decisions are final '' . The referee already `` acts on the advice of the assistant referees regarding incidents that he has not seen '' and can change decisions based on advice . All referees also have an earpiece -LRB- introduced in 2006 -RRB- linking the two assistant refs and the fourth official , which already demonstrates technology 's successful impact in football . GLT is simply the next step . 	The introduction of technology is inevitable
Insofar as the Confederate flag is representative of a social order in which people of color are of comparable status to property , its display creates an untenable atmosphere of racial intolerance . Though the First Amendment is explicit in guaranteeing the right to free expression , hate speech which serves to promote violence towards a particular group or individual is acknowledged to fall outside the boundaries of Constitutional protection . Any interpretation which would seek to narrow the definition of hate speech to only encompass direct exhortations to violence `` fails to acknowledge that White supremacists ' racist ideology blames racial and ethnic minorities for all of society 's ills . When demagogues and leaders of hate groups use racist and hateful propaganda , they are seeking followers whose attachment to the organization is premised on seeing members of outgroups as less than human . Once minorities are assumed to be subhuman , there is no longer any reason not to eliminate them by attacking them physically '' . Bell , Jeannine . `` Restraining the Heartless : Racist Speech and Minority Rights . '' Indiana Law Journal 84 -LRB- 2009 -RRB- : 963-79 . Print . 	Speech which instigates racial discord ought be constrained
The effects of a general ban on the public display of the Confederate flag would reach beyond those whom it is so plainly meant to intimidate . It would remove what amounts to a constant visual reinforcement of Old Southern racial doctrines and would consequently help to cultivate a more tolerant society . Empirical studies indicate that `` exposure to the Confederate ? ag led White participants to rate a hypothetical Black male character more negatively than those in the control condition . Participants ' racial attitudes failed to predict the degree to which ? ag exposure produced more negative evaluations . These ? ndings support the argument that exposure to the Confederate ? ag activates racially biased responding , by virtue of the ? ag 's cultural associations with prejudice , and results in negatively biased judgments of Black people '' . Ehrlinger , Joyce , E. Ashby Plant , Richard P. Eibach , Corey J. Columb , Joanna L. Goplen , Jonathan W. Kunstman , and David A. Butz . `` How Exposure to the Confederate Flag Affects Willingness to Vote for Barack Obama . '' Political Psychology -LRB- 2010 -RRB- : No . Print . 	Banning a symbol of bigotry promotes racial tolerance .
The right to free speech is an instrumental , rather than an intrinsic good . It does not derive its value from some abstract notion of expression for expression 's own sake , but from the manner in which our First Amendment rights enable us to communicate our ideas to others in both private and public discourse . The Confederate flag possesses little , if any purpose save for the inflammation of lingering racial tensions . Furthermore , any sentiment which one could conceivably seek to express using the Confederate flag could be articulated in a much more constructive fashion through other means . There exist , as argued in the 1942 Supreme Court decision Chaplinsky v. New Hampshire , `` certain well-defined and narrowly limited classes of speech , the prevention and punishment of which has never been thought to raise any Constitutional problem ... It has been well observed that such utterances are no essential part of any exposition of ideas , and are of such slight social value as a step to truth that any benefit that may be derived from them is clearly outweighed by the social interest in order and morality '' . To display the Confederate flag is no invitation to dialogue , but rather an act of intimidation this is not something the government should be endorsing by allowing the flag to be flown on public property . 	Speech which serves no communicative purpose deserves no legal
Because the Confederate flag is almost invariably flown in communities affected by some degree of racial discord , its potency as a symbol of nostalgia for the racial hierarchy of the Old South is heightened . Were it to be flown in communities which enjoyed a pronounced racial harmony , the flag would be less likely to incite acts of hatred . However , when adjudicating the question of whether to allow such a display , `` the value of such expression should be balanced against the likelihood that it will cause harm . The risks are greater when hate propaganda incorporates symbolismthat demagogues have historically displayed to rally supporters to action -LSB- states must use -RSB- historical records to identify symbolism that is likely to terrorize the populace and , therefore , detract from the common good . Tsesis , `` Dignity and Speech : The Regulation of Hate Speech in a Democracy . `` 2009 . 	Acts of intolerance should be most tightly constrained where they present the greatest threat .
The policy of disengagement has not resulted in any meaningful change in Myanmar , politically or economically . Since Myanmar has not been dependent on the US or the EU , sanctions and arms embargoes have not had any effect on the government . The changes in 2010-2011 have been due to the influence of the NLD , and certain regional players -LRB- like Thailand and China -RRB- which have sought to directly engage with Myanmar . Further , the sections of the population that are most affected by the sanctions are those not in the top tier of the political and economic class , but smaller manufacturers and the working class . Restrictions on exports and developmental aid from the US and the EU prevent local manufacturers and consumers from having access to them . On the other hand , restrictions on imports from Myanmar weaken the market for its exporters . These factors only further impoverish and alienate the local population , increasing economic disparity , and consequently the power of the ruling elite in the national context as well . 	Disengagement has done more harm than good in the region
Reengagement has potential for having a positive influence in various contexts . Myanmar is rich in natural resources , including forest products , minerals and gems . Removing trade restrictions and offering developmental aid would benefit the local economy and population . In the longer term , economic activity can act as a stimulus for development of a stronger legal and business framework to reduce corruption . If the US and the EU create confidence in the Myanmar government that they are willing to offer something constructive rather than critical , it may be possible to ask for greater transparency in government and reduce systematic violations of human rights as well . The newly elected civilian government has indicated it is willing to pursue democratic reform , and the US and the EU should not lose this opportunity for change . 	There is scope for further diplomatic progress in the region through disengagement
The isolation of Myanmar by some of the developed Western powers is arbitrary and marked by hypocrisy . The real reasons for the stance taken by these countries are political . There is little consistency in the attitude taken towards other governments and dictatorships across the world that also have questionable human rights records -LRB- Saudi Arabia and Egypt , to name a few -RRB- , but either offer other strategic and economic benefits , or are much more influential in international affairs than Myanmar . Myanmar is only part of a group of countries -LRB- also including Cuba and North Korea -RRB- whose economic and political policies have remained relatively opaque to arm-twisting by the US and the EU . It is unfair to impose sanctions on and isolate Myanmar on this basis , especially in an emerging multi-polar international environment . 	States should not be isolated on political grounds
Myanmar has taken significant steps towards democratisation in the last three years . The new constitution and the elections that resulted in the current civilian government being appointed represent a marked shift in its governance structure . Though there may be scope for improvement in its democratic framework , institutions for democratic functioning have been created and this is a huge step forward . Aung San Suu Kyi has also been released from house arrest , and the tone of the statements made by the new government has been a reconciliatory one . A new human rights commission has also been established . While the pace of reform may not match the supposed expectations of the US and the EU , Myanmars choice to change gradually and engage with them on its own terms must be respected . The fundamental circumstances under which a policy of limited engagement was adopted with Myanmar have changed , and this calls for reassessment . 	Myanmar is no longer a military dictatorship
Since the fall of communism , Russia has plunged into a deep economic recession . The introduction of market reforms and privatization has led to a swift increase in inequalities coupled with an increase in corruption . The chaos of economic and political reform , along with the chaos of the break-up of former USSR , has left the majority of the population both disillusioned and distrustful of their government . In a period of such chaos , stability seems to be much more important than reform . A strong leader is the only solution to providing such stability , setting a clear direction and pulling a country at risk of falling apart together again . This is also proven from various polls among the Russian population The most eye-catching statistic is the overwhelming majority of respondents who say that order is more important for Russia than democracy 72 per cent , with 16 per cent responding conversely . -LRB- 1 -RRB- 	Stability is more important than reform
Putins authoritarian style is not a threat to democracy but rather a requirement for a successful and quicker transition . Having Putin control the media is probably healthier than having it be controlled by a corrupt few that promote their personal interests rather than the interest of the state and thus those of the population at large . Democracy is a goal and while certain countries believe themselves to have achieved it , they are constantly struggling to maintain it . As a young democracy , Russia is still working towards defining its own version of democracy and finding what works best in its case . 	A strong leader is working in the states best interest
Putin is the strong leader that Russia has been waiting for . His electoral success and consistently high approval rates show that the people of Russia are ready for someone who can rid their society of increasing corruption and restore a sense of calm and equality . His ability to maintain a high level of support despite what some have called authoritarian tendencies shows that people are ready to sacrifice a certain degree of freedom for the promise of stability . Enthusiasm for Putin among the young also shows that he does not only appeal to those looking back to past certainties . 	A strong leader has more benefits than harms
Historically , Russia has always needed strong centralised leadership for it to make progress . This was true both in imperial times under tsars such as Peter the Great -LRB- who made Russia a European power and built St Petersburg -RRB- and Alexander II -LRB- who freed the serfs -RRB- , and since 1917 under Lenin and Stalin . Russia is too big , too diverse and too thinly-populated for western systems of representative democracy to be applied . Culturally its people are temperamentally suited to following the decisive lead of a strong ruler who can unite them in the face of great challenges . Without such a ruler Russia is likely to fragment with local strongmen grabbing power in the regions , religious fundamentalism dominating much of the Caucasus and Central Asia , and economic stagnation . 	Russia as a state and Russians as a nation need strong leadership
Freedom of choice : If athletes wish to take drugs in search of improved performances , let them do so . They harm nobody but themselves and should be treated as adults , capable of making rational decisions upon the basis of widely-available information . Even if there are adverse health effects in the long-term , this is also true of tobacco , alcohol and boxing , which remain legal . We allow world class athletes to train for 23 hours a week -LRB- on average -RRB- , adjust their diets and endanger themselves by pushing the boundaries of their body . We let them do it , because it is what they chose which is best for them . According to the NFL Player Association the average life expectancy of an NFL player is 58 years of age -LRB- 1 -RRB- . Thus already we allow athletes to endanger their lives , give them the choice of a lifestyle . Why not also extend this moral precedent to drugs ? , accessed 05/18/2011 	Athletes should be free to take risks when training and competing
It does not take a lot for chemists to produce performance enhancing drugs , the Scientific American reports : Rogue scientists start with testosterone or its commercially available analogues and then make minor structural modifications to yield similarly active derivatives . The underground chemists make no effort to test their creations for effectiveness or safety , of course . Production of a simple new steroid compound would require `` lab equipment costing maybe $ 50,000 to $ 100,000 , '' . Depending on the number of chemical reactions needed for synthesis , `` some of them could be made in a week or two . Others might take six months to a year . '' -LRB- 1 -RRB- As a result of legalizing performance-enhancing drugs a backstreet industry can become regulated as a result there will be much more control and testing to ensure the health and safety of the athletes who take the drugs . 	Improving safety standards in sport
The natural/unnatural distinction is untenable . Already athletes use all sorts of dietary supplements , exercises , equipment , clothing , training regimes , medical treatments , etc . to enhance their performance . There is nothing natural about taking vitamin pills , wearing whole-body Lycra suits , having surgery on ligaments , spending every day in a gym pumping weights or running in shoes with spikes on the bottom . Diet , medicine , technology , and even just coaching already give an artificial advantage to those athletes who can afford the best of all these aids . Since there is no clear way to distinguish from legitimate and illegitimate artificial aids to performance , they should all be allowed . So taking these drugs is no more unnatural than what happens today . A practical example of an unnatural aid is the Speedo worn in 2008 at the Beijing Olympics . FINA , the world governing body of swimming was concerned about the extraordinary statistics in Beijing where swimmers wearing the Speedo LZR Racer swimsuit won 90 per cent of all available medals and broke 23 world records . Since Speedo launched the suit in 2008 , 108 world records have fallen -LRB- until February 2009 -RRB- -LRB- 1 -RRB- . , accessed 15/05/2011 	There is no distinction between `` natural '' and synthetic methods of performance enhancement
The use of performance enhancing drugs is based on advances in science . When new drugs and therapies are found , athletes turn to them and as a result are much of the time ahead of the anti-doping organizations , which need to develop methods of athlete testing whenever a new drug that is meant to be untraceable is created . In 2008 it was a big shock when Riccardo Ricco -LRB- a cyclist -RRB- was caught using the performance-enhancing drug Mircera , which had been considered undetectable for a number of years . The fact is that a ban of performance enhancing drugs enables mainly athletes from wealthy countries and teams that can afford the newest technology to go undetected , whilst others are disadvantaged -LRB- 1 -RRB- . So because it gives an unfair advantage to the wealthy one who can pay for the undetectable drugs , we should legalize it . for Undetectable New Drug Mircera at 2008 Tour de France , 07/18/2008 , , accessed 05/20/2011 	Controlling , rather than ignoring , performance enhancing substances will improve competitive standards in sport
The missile defense shield the United States intends to build is the most effective and complete ballistic missile shield ever devised . When fully armed with a complement of anti-ballistic missiles both within the United States itself , and in allied nations in Europe , the shield will be virtually impregnable to external missile attack . This means the chance of a nuclear attack succeeding against it will be very unlikely , reducing the chance not only of a full-scale nuclear war between the United States and another nuclear power , but also against missiles fired by rogue states or terrorists , the biggest threats in terms of actual use of nuclear weapons -LRB- The Economist , 2009 -RRB- . Technologically speaking , anti-ballistic missile missiles have developed by leaps and bounds in recent years . The current system being put into operation by the United States is the Aegis combat system , designed for deployment on US Naval vessels . This new development has served to sidestep the problems associated with ground and space-based missile defense arrays , due to the slow response time of ground missiles , and the still unfeasible orbital deployment . The sea-based defense array , furthermore , lacks the problem of the land-based system in that it does not need to be placed in countries other than the United States in order to be effective -LRB- thus avoiding the political problems of the past -RRB- . Technology and diplomacy have clearly made a national missile defense system highly desirable . 	A strategic missile defense shield will be an effective defense against ballistic missile attacks targeted at the United States and its allies
An operational national missile defense system renders nuclear weapons , and intercontinental ballistic missiles generally , obsolete . When a country can shoot down all enemy missiles , those weapons lose their power . The future of war , once countries have access to the technology to build missile shields , will no longer be marked by fingers held over the proverbial red button . Rather , the incentive for conflict between states armed with effective missile defenses will be to seek diplomatic solutions to problems . The technology will likely be in the hands of many nations very soon , as the United States has already provided the technology to Japan and Australia , and will be building defense batteries in Romania from 2015 -LRB- McMichael , 2009 -RRB- . Furthermore , even should war break out , they will necessarily be far less destructive , as they will not feature the city-leveling power of nuclear missiles . With missile defense , war will be less likely and , should it occur , less destructive . 	Strategic missile defense technology is substantially more advanced and discriminating in application than nuclear weapons , making potential future wars less potentially devastating
With a fully functioning missile defense shield deployed , nuclear-armed ballistic missiles become obsolete , unable to ever reach their targets . This means countries strategic obsession with second-strike capacity , the ability to return fire with nuclear weapons should they be attacked by them -LRB- Mutually Assured Destruction -RRB- , will cease to be an issue , as first-strikes are destined to be wiped out before they hit a single target . What this means is that countries with missile defense systems can feel secure without the need of retaining massive nuclear arsenals . This will alleviate the pressure to have stockpiles of warheads and will promote disarmament . Mutually Assured Destruction has become a far less secure strategy as nuclear proliferation has occurred to states with different strategic conceptions . This has been seen in the United States , which since its full adoption of the Aegis system has actively pursued a policy of reaching a new accord with Russia on nuclear arms reduction . This culminated in 2010 with the signing of the New START -LRB- Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty -RRB- , an accord to reduce the number of strategic nuclear missile launchers by half -LRB- Associated Press , 2011 -RRB- . This new step toward nuclear disarmament could not be politically possible in the United States without a replacement defense , which only a national missile defense system can provide . 	A robust missile defense shield will provide the protection previously afforded by the doctrine of Mutually Assured Destruction , allowing the US to dismantle much of its dangerous nuclear arsenal
The nation-state is the fundamental building block of the international system , and is recognized as such in all international treaties and organizations -LRB- Mearsheimer , 1993 -RRB- . States are recognized as having the right to defend themselves , and this right must extend to the possession of a strategic national missile defense system . The United States has every right to develop such a system if it will furnish a greater measure of defense for its citizens and interests . US military technology is the most advanced and prodigiously financed in the world , which is why it is generally the United States that stands at the forefront of new defense and combat systems . The National Missile Defense program is simply the newest tool in the arsenal of the worlds greatest military , whose purpose is entirely defensive . To shield itself from potential ballistic missile , and even nuclear , attack the United States has the right to build a missile shield to defend itself and its allies under its aegis . There is no principled justification for a country to not pursue defense initiatives that benefit itself and that it wishes to pursue . 	As a matter of principle , every country , including the United States , has the right to defend itself to the best of its technological and economic ability
The state funds the education system through taxation . Parents who do not send their children to state schools still pay those same taxes . Therefore , these taxes are spent on a smaller number of schools and there is more money per child in the state sector than there would be if we banned private education . In 2008 there were 569,080 students in independent schools in England , -LRB- BBC 2009 -RRB- - this would be a very large extra burden for state schools to bear . These students parents are therefore not only paying for their own children but also for students to study at state schools as well . 	Private schools are financially beneficial for state schools
In 2007 , the US magazine discovered that private schools in the US received much higher SAT scores that the state counterparts . Research suggests that private education puts a greater emphasis on critical thinking , while state schools emphasise memory and learning by rote -LRB- time.com -RRB- . These types of critical skills mean that students from private schools have a better start at university education as they are more used to what will be required of them . Furthermore , students from private schools are more likely to get into a university in the first place -LRB- Time , 2007 / BBC , 2010 -RRB- . In the US students are twice as likely to get the grades allowing them to go to university if they have had a private education , and for minority groups in America it is more than double -LRB- Capenet.org , 2001 -RRB- . This is likely to be replicated across the world . Private schools in Brazil also provide better education , as there is one teacher per 10 students in comparison to the 45-50 students per class in a government funded school . -LRB- Cabra ; and Throssell 2010 -RRB- . Therefore by denying private education the effect may be disastrous for these minority groups . 	Private schools provide a better education than state schools
People should be allowed to spend their money as they wish . If parents choose to spend money on their childrens advancement over something else they could buy then it is there decision to make . The core of this is the idea of ownership over our income , and that the state should not be able to restrict our spending this income by banning products such as private education . Education in Germany can be used as an example of allowing parents the free will to decide where their child goes to school , article 7 paragraphs 4 of the Grundgesetz enshrines the right to create private schools . -LRB- The Grundgesetz -RRB- . There are many other similar cases where the state provides a service but there are also private options , healthcare being the most obvious . While most people in Britain use a National Health Service -LRB- NHS -RRB- hospital there are other options provided privately by companies such as BUPA , no one proposes that people should not be able to buy better healthcare , quite the opposite - the NHS may be moving towards privatization . -LRB- McCabe and Kirkpatrick , 2011 -RRB- 	People should have free choice about how they spend their money
Political Parties are able to wield considerable power , controlling their party members and representatives , particularly in Parliamentary political systems . Through use of patronage and the threat of sanctions such as deselection , party leaders are able to manipulate representatives to fulfil their own aims rather than those of constituents . By instituting Open Primaries , the focus of representatives shifts from the party leadership to the constituents whom prospective candidates hope to represent . Scrutiny over the representatives conduct would be in the hands of the voters , with reselection in an Open Primary being contingent upon the member looking after the interests of their constituents , rather than the interest of the party as is the case in many countries that do not have Open Primary systems . By using Open Primaries , elections once again becomes about representing the people as opposed to being a means to power as is the case under the status quo in countries that do not use it . 	Open primaries prevent the centralisation of party power
Open Primaries allows for the electorate to make a considered choice between candidate and party , with other considerations beyond the partisan being up for consideration . In safe districts , voters are given a choice between members of the same party , allowing for voters to effectively choose the next member based upon past record and views on big issues , allowing for the ideological cleavages within parties to brought under closer examination , with voters in the safe seat choosing the type of Conservatism/Liberalism/Socialism they prefer . This can help to provide choice even when one party is already assured of winning the seat , thus providing a degree of competition in the district , engaging voters in the electoral process . 	Open primaries allow the electorate to express nuanced polling choices
By creating a situation whereby all voters have a potential say in selecting candidates , it can prevent overweening control by party grass roots who may vote for overtly ideological candidates who turn off the moderate voters needed to win elections . An Open Primary is more likely to choose more centrist candidates for the general election , providing a degree of moderation to the process of election and politics in general . This in turn can help foster a consensual atmosphere in political discourse with general agreed points , focusing the debate on more core issues between the main parties . This then means that much more is likely to get done . At the moment American politics is plagued by gridlock both in the states and in Congress . Individuals elected under open primaries are much more likely to be willing to compromise across the aisle . As a result government will begin moving again . 	Open primaries promote moderate , non-partisan politics
A major problem with general elections , specifically in countries such as the United States , United Kingdom and Canada which use Majoritarian Simple Plurality electoral systems , is that only two major parties -LRB- e.g . Democrats and Republicans -RRB- are in contention for power or in some cases representation , leaving those that have loyalties elsewhere feeling disenfranchised from a political system that does not take into account of their point of view . Open Primaries counters this by allowing these voters a chance to vote for candidates of a major party that are closer to their own political persuasion , thus giving as many people as possible the opportunity to register their opinion on who will be their representative for the next term , ending disillusionment with predictable election results . This means that third party candidates may become serious candidates in elections when they pass the primary test . 	Open primaries promote engagement with political minorities
It is clear that the economic meltdown was , in large part , caused by deregulation of the banking and financial sectors . The Republican obsession causes not only environmental damage and low wages but it doesnt even succeed in its avowed aim of leaving the market free to generate wealth . In just a way of letting the parties friends in the boardrooms of corporate America to get even richer by gambling with the homes and pensions of ordinary , hard-working Americans . The Congressional Republican response to the 2008 crash was to pass a bill that curtailed 38 environmental regulations , blaming the EPA for the stalled economy . Why is anyones guess . 	Deregulation contributed to the banking crises and , therefore the 2009 economic crash
Quality customers can only be created by paying people enough to allow them to purchase goods and services . You can create as many jobs as you like but if theyre created at a level where consumers cant even afford to survive it does absolutely nothing to stimulate the economy . Instead Democrats believe in working with labour to ensure that wages are set at levels that both respect the worker and have a positive effect on the economy . 	Democrats focus on increasing wages , creating better consumers .
During the past 60 years Democrats have been considerably more likely to preside over a balanced budget than their Republican rivals . Since the OPEC shocks of the mid-70s the average unemployment rate under Republican Presidents has been 6.7 % as opposed to 5.5 % under democrats . Even expanding that period out to the whole of the post-war period , unemployment has averaged 4.8 % under democrats and 6.3 % under democrats . Republican presidencies have been marked by higher unemployment , bigger deficits and lower wages . 	Historically Democrats have presided over more economic stability whereas the GOP is the party of boom and Bust
The Clinton legacy was one of extraordinary economic health including an enormous $ 4,000 billion surplus . This could have been used to improve services and create jobs . Instead the Bush administration squandered this , mostly on tax cuts for the wealthy and two expensive wars . He turned the surplus on its head , leaving a budget deficit of $ 482 billion in 2009 with , frankly , not a lot to show for it . 	Bush squandered an extraordinary economic legacy on tax cuts for the wealthy and too expensive and unnecessary wars .
European states , which make up half of the members of the G8 , have been reluctant to take stronger economic steps against aggressive Russian actions . Russia has warned the US We will encourage everybody to dump US Treasury bonds , get rid of dollars as an unreliable currency and leave the US market . The European countries have more reason to be concerned because they rely on Russia for their gas supplies ; 39 % of German gas and 9 % of total energy consumption is reliant on Russia . If Russia were to retaliate to sanctions it could seriously damage the European economy . This means that throwing Russia out of the G8 or other institutions is the biggest sanction that does not have any risk of economic retaliation and escalation that damage everyone . 	The biggest action the west can take without sanctions
The G8 has been meant to be a group of industrialised democracies . Russia is neither particularly industrialised , nor particularly democratic . Russia remains reliant on natural resources for much of its wealth ; 30 % of its GDP and 70 % of exports . Its most recent presidential election that voted in Putin for a third term was not exactly free and fair . The OSCE election observers concluded There was no real competition and abuse of government resources ensured that the ultimate winner of the election was never in doubt . Its qualifications for membership have been questioned from the very beginning , when Russia joined the G7 were able to argue inclusion would bring it closer to the west . Yet Russia remains essentially an outsider in the group , it does not share western values and goes its own way . 	Russia should never have been a member
The focus of the G8 is on economic , monetary , financial and globilisation issues . Aggressive actions scare the markets as shown by the rouble reaching new lows against the dollar and Euro so run counter to the focus of the G8 . Russia has in the past also used its gas supplies as an economic weapon , this and acts of aggression such as in Crimea are repudiating the idea of globilisation . The G8 is important because there is a good understanding among G8 members clearly when one of those members is engaging in conflictual acts that understanding is damaged . The G7 members on 2 March 2014 in a statement responding to Russias aggression in the Crimea stated Russias actions in Ukraine also contravene the principles and values on which the G-7 and the G-8 operate . Any member that does not follow the principles of an organisation should be suspended as a member . 	Aggressive acts violate the meaning of the G8
The intention of international institutions is to bind countries together , to ensure they speak to each other and resolve differences , and to ensure they feel they can not engage in aggressive actions . However when a state breaks these norms there needs to be a reaction . Russia has been willing to engage in aggressive acts time and time again . The recent occupation of Crimea is very similar to Russias war with Georgia in 2008 ; in both conflicts Russia used the excuse of Russians being in danger , in both cases Russia was there as a peacekeeper , and in both cases the action was in another sovereign country whose government did not wish Russian troops there . The result is an expansion of Russian influence and some form of annexation . There was no action after the Russian conflict with Georgia except a mediated peace . There now needs to be a response to actions in Crimea ; throwing Russia out of the G8 is the least response . 	There needs to be a response to bad behaviour internationally
The United States has been accused of using bullying tactics in the pursuit of gaining Article 98 Agreements by , amongst others , Human Rights Watch . This has included significant reductions in non-military , development aid , including to countries such as South Africa , the Bahamas and Peru , as well as making threats to accession to NATO in the case of Croatia . By signing up to Article 98 Agreements , European nations help contribute to a climate where smaller nations can also be strong-armed in to harming the International Criminal Court by signing them , even if they were not subject to blackmailed in to it themselves . Roth , Kenneth , Letter to the US Secretary of State Colin Powell on Bully Tactics against the International Criminal Court , , 2003 Keppler , Elise , The United States and the International Criminal Court : The Bush Administrations Approach and a Way Forward Under the Obama Administration , , 2009 , 2 , p12 , 	The BIAs were only granted following bully tactics from the United States
The Bilateral Immunity Agreements that these states have entered in to undermine the court that these states have signed up to . BIAs invalidate the intention for the ICC that any person who is subject to the jurisdiction of the court -LRB- which only triggers when an individual is a citizen of a state that has ratified the Rome Statute , or in the territory of a Rome Statute state -RRB- and commits the horrific acts covered by the Rome Statute should be brought to trial by providing a get out clause for the powerful . A proliferation in BIAs could potentially render the ICC a court that can only try nationals of small states that do not have the leverage to get others to agree to BIAs , already the ICC is accused of bias in putting Africans on trial and ignoring the rest of the world , such agreements make this worse . BIAs by one state , the United States , creates a precedent for other states to use and as they do so the field that is available for international criminal justice will become smaller and smaller . Kersten , Mark , African and the ICC : Some Unsolicited Advice , , 28 May 2013 , 	The rationale for the BIAs is flawed
The European states have signed and ratified the ICC Statute and should honour it , to do otherwise makes a mockery of the ICC which those states supported throughout its genesis and at least claim to continue to support . Article 98 -LRB- 2 -RRB- was only intended to be a factor where there are other agreements such as status of forces agreements -LRB- an agreement entered in to between two states , one having military forces in the other voluntarily , such as British troops in Germany -RRB- . It was not meant as a broad-brush way for states being able to grant selective immunity to citizens of non-member states who have committed genocide or crimes against humanity inside the jurisdiction of an ICC member state . Signing an Article 98 Agreement is at best accepting foreign instigation of the abuse of process of a treaty . At worst it is accepting an illegal attempt at circumventing the treaty . 	The BIAs are at best bad faith compliance , and worst a blatant violation of the Rome Statute
There are many reports showing that there is a positive correlation between the number of women on high positions and the companies performance . A report from The McKinsey Organizational Health Index -LRB- OHI -RRB- argues that companies with three or more women in top positions -LRB- executive committee and higher -RRB- scored higher than their peers . Companies that score highly on all the OHI measures have also shown superior financial performance . This is often related to the high overall education level of women on boards . In Norway , there has been some advancement in firms human capital as a result of the quotas , which may result in increased profits in the future due to the increasing number of well educated women . Female managers tend to promote a communal and collaborative style of leadership that can improve a companys performance and work culture . Organizations with women in top leadership positions are also more likely to provide work-life assistance to all employees . Norwegian scholars have found that the increased number of women on boards has led to more focused and strategic decision-making , increased communication , and decreased conflict . In fact , many successful business women , such as Sheryl Sandberg , also argue that more women in business could change business ethics and the male-associated image of successful business model that will bring competitive advantages to companies and thus , to the EU economies . . Sandberg , Sheryl , Lean In : Women , Work , and the Will to Lead , New York , 2013 Sandberg , Sheryl , Lean In : Women , Work , and the Will to Lead , New York , 2013 	Quota-led gender equality in executive boards will help shape a gender sensitive and highly performing business environment .
Gender equality at the workplace is an important principle that businesses should follow . If we consider men and women to be equal then they should be equally represented at the top levels of politics , society , and business . This is not simply a national issue , but a pan-EU problem of justice and equal rights . Gender equality is linked to the fundamental human rights that the EU endorses and the lack of progress in terms of women in high positions of Europe requires a proactive stance . As Morin-Chartier argues , the EU directives are about being a model for one another and the quotas will serve as an archetype for others worldwide . Therefore , the quotas are necessary to encourage progress in this field as other tools have not brought equal gender representation . 	Gender equality is based on fundamental human rights endorsed by the EU which needs to be addressed
By introducing gender quotas to ensure gender equality , one could not only increase the labour force by bringing more women but also enhance the labour productivity and the available talent pool in a country . This would stimulate businesses to expand , innovate , and compete . This process has an effect of raising tax revenue and social security payments . The overall effect is the positive growth of the economy . Therefore , addressing social injustice and higher economic returns are mutually supportive goals . This argument is particularly relevant for qualified women who could be hired at executive positions , but are prevented from doing so due to cultural beliefs , societal practices , and lack of economic and institutional support . A study by Asa Lfstrm on the links between economic growth and productivity in the labour market argues that if womens productivity level rises to the level of mens , Europes GDP could grow 27 % which makes womens participation is of crucial importance to Europes economy . Quotas would allow for a better utilisation of the talent pool ; as currently , 59 % of the students graduating from Europes higher educational institutes are women . With the current access to education and the introduction of quotas against barriers of existing prejudices , women will have incentives and support to increase their productivity In the case of Norway , the quota law requires all public , state-owned , municipal , inter-municipal and cooperative companies to appoint at least 40 % women on their boards per 2008 . The law led to a fast increase from 6 % women on boards of public limited companies in 2002 to 36 % in 2008 . 	More women in the labour market leads to higher GDP
Quotas attempting to maximise the number of educated and skilled women in executive positions could improve corporate performance and help raise national productivity . But doing so will depend on keeping ambitious , well-qualified women moving up the management ranks . Gender quotas will encourage more women to pursue education and career options leading to the top of executive positions . Quotas create incentives for women to adapt their job preferences to the more accessible boardroom positions and develop necessary skills which would reduce the need for positive discrimination in the future . Encouraged to develop relevant skills , women will contribute to the long-term talent pool and the economy . According to McKinsey report , womens interest in being leaders increases as they progress from entry level to middle management which is exactly what the principle behind quotas aims to encourage - more women following professional career development . This is very important in the short run during which , according to research , women who have high position stimulate other womens interest in traditionally male-dominated sectors and encourage them to pursue similar career paths . . 	Quotas encourage women to pursue education and professional job positions
If the state funded IVF treatment , it would overcome some of the inefficiencies involved in expensive medical treatment . Costs would be brought down as economies of scale are exploited , and state health services have better bargaining power when it comes to purchasing large orders of drugs and equipment . A higher rate of treatment within the population would increase safety and improve outcomes -LRB- thus reducing costs -RRB- , as medical departments become more experienced . Most significantly , an asymmetry of information exists between doctor and patient -LRB- as it does with all medical treatment -RRB- patients are not aware of what services they need , and are unable to weigh up the various options available to them , because doing so requires medical training . This drives up prices , as doctors have incentives to over treat patients , and not to treat patients in the most cost-effective manner . Providing state funding would make the state the purchaser of IVF services -LRB- or even the direct provider of them -RRB- , removing either the ability to over treat or the incentive to do so -LRB- depending on whether the state is the buyer or the provider -RRB- . 	State IVF treatments will become more cost effective .
Having children is such an important aspect of most peoples lives that it should be considered a right . For many people , their status as parents is a key part of their identity , and their devotion towards their children is indicative of how important parenting is to them . The right to start a family is recognized in article 12 of the European Convention on Human Rights and article 16 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights . However , this right is apportioned unevenly . Couples who are unable to have children naturally , either because of medical infertility or because they are a same-sex couple , are unable to conceive children unless they are wealthy enough to afford private IVF treatment . This may affect many people given the extremely high cost of IVF treatment . Being unable to exercise this right should not depend on income , so the state must financially assist couples who are unable to afford treatment . And even if we believe this right is not basic , and more a choice of a lifestyle , if the state has the possibility to ensure it to everyone , why not maximize rights and make as many people happy as possible . 	Equalizing the right to parenthood .
There are benefits to the state in promoting fertility treatments and so encouraging more people to have children . Most developed countries have rapidly aging populations with too few young people to be able to maintain their pensions systems over the next thirty years . To avert demographic crisis governments need to do more to encourage couples to start families . Many states already support couples who have children through the benefits system ; some like Italy even pay a lump sum to couples on the birth of each child . Funding IVF to increase the number of births is an obvious extension of this principle . It would also be right for society through the state to fund IVF , as career expectations and the high costs of housing force many couples now delay starting a family until they are in their thirties , by which time they may need medical help to conceive . 	Greater birthrates among general population is something to be supported
Most couples which decide to do IVF treatments do not have unlimited funds available to them . Therefore , once they decide to do IVF treatments in order to reduce the costs of more cycles , couples and clinicians -LRB- with only private funds -RRB- typically opt to implant numerous embryos , hoping at least one will survive . While this may reduce the cost of treatments , it can result in multiples anything from twins to the infamous Octomom octoplets . Multiples tend to be born prematurely and have a high rate of health problems , which can result in tremendous medical costs and life-long expenses , such as special education . Through the IVF treatments the early numbers in Quebec show , only 3.8 per cent of pregnancies in the IVF program are now multiples , down sharply from 27.2 per cent . So with the public funding , two benefits are safer treatment of mother and child -LRB- since only one implant at a time gets implanted -RRB- and reduced cost of IVF treatment for parents . 	IVF treatments will be safer .
Expanding Heathrow would ensure many current jobs as well as creating new ones . Currently , Heathrow supports around 250,000 jobs . Added to this many hundreds of thousands more are dependent upon the tourist trade in London which relies on good transport links like Heathrow . Loosing competitiveness in front of other European airports not only could imply wasting the possibility to create new jobs , but lose some of those that already exist . Expansion of Heathrow would also be building a vital part of infrastructure at a time when British infrastructure spending is very low as a result of the recession so helping to boost growth . Good flight connections are critical for attracting new business and maintaining current business . This is because aviation infrastructure is important for identifying new business opportunities . The UKs economic future depends on trading not just with traditional destinations in Europe and America but also with the expanding cities of China and India , cities such as Chongqing and Chengdu . Businesses based in these cities will be much more likely to invest in Britain with direct flights . BBC News , New group backs Heathrow expansion , 21 July 2003 , Duncan , E. , Wake up . We need a third runway . The Times , 2012 , Salomone , Roger , Time to up the ante on roads and airports , , 2 April 2013 , 	The expansion of Heathrow is vital for the economy
Flying is critical for business . Heathrow is well located for the people that will pick up the bill funding its expansion . People need to be able to get to their homes and work easily from the airport otherwise it is impractical . According to the Civil Aviation Authority 25 % of business passengers start their journey within 30 minutes of Heathrow , far more than any other airport . This demonstrates that the demand for Heathrows services from the local area is real and pronounced . Heathrow is closer to London than its rivals Gatwick and Stansted and has better transport links through the Piccadilly line and Heathrow Express . A new airport could potentially be closer , but finding space within the M25 for a large airport without attracting the same kind of opposition that expanding Heathrow has would be next to impossible Leunig , Tim , A bigger and quieter Heathrow is the answer to our aviation capacity problem , , 5 October 2012 , 	Heathrow is in the best location for London
Put simply Heathrow is at the limits of its capacity so there needs to be expansion . Heathrow is already at 99 % capacity and running so close to maximum capacity means that any minor problem can result in large delays for passengers . Londons major rivals have four-runway hub airports Paris , Frankfurt , even Madrid this means these cities have much greater capacity as they can take up to 700,000 flights a year compared to Heathrows 480,000 . Britain does not want to be left behind , crumbling in the dust . These airports therefore clearly have the capacity to take flights that would otherwise be going to Heathrow . Heathrow needs to expand to maintain its competitiveness so that the airport retains its position the most popular place to stop-over in before catching a connecting flight . Colin Matthews , the chief executive of Heathrow -LRB- formerly BAA -RRB- has argued that Heathrows lack of hub capacity currently costs the UK 14billion . Heathrow is in danger of falling behind continental rivals in Frankfurt and Amsterdam . Leunig , T. , A third runway ? Yes , and a fourth too , please The Times , 2012 , Lundgren , Kari , Heathrow Limit Costs U.K. 14 Billion Pounds , Airport Says , Bloomberg , 15 November 2012 , Topham , Gwyn . , Heathrow must be expanded or replaced , airport chief announces The Guardian , 15 November 2012 , 	Heathrow is full ; it must expand
Employers worry when they hire young/middle aged women . They fear that after hiring a woman , she will only cost the company money by getting pregnant and going on maternity leave . To combat this attitude , maternity and paternity leave should be equal . Currently , paternity leave is a maximum of two consecutive weeks . These two weeks must be taken within 56 days of the childs birth . This can be contrasted with the long maternity leave that is allowed for . Women are entitled to 52 weeks of maternity leave from day one of employment . Women are entitled to maternity pay for 39 weeks if they have been working for their employer for 26 weeks . Fathers also do not have the right to take time off work to attend antenatal classes , this allowance is for pregnant employees only . The feminist cause still has this issue to resolve . Until paternity leave is offered an employer can safely assume that a woman will be the partner to burden the care of the child and the employer will be the one to bear these costs of maternity leave . This gives men an unfair advantage in the workplace as they are a safer bet for employment . 	Maternity and Paternity Leave Are Not Yet Equal
Out of over 250 countries , only a few are currently headed by women . Women still account for only about 14 % of members of parliament worldwide in 2002 . Some argue that gender quotas should be established to ensure equal input of men and women in parliament . Therefore , the feminist movement is still needed to fight this battle . Woman still hold lower position in business , the legal profession and in the world of politics . It is therefore hard to argue that the glass ceiling has disintegrated . Until women hold higher positions in these fields the feminist cause has still not achieved its goals - in seeking to create a world where , amongst other things women can advance up the ladder in their career without being blocked by a glass ceiling and held back in lower positions . 	Males Still Dominate the Top Positions
Feminism is still of relevance today , and is indeed needed . In the UK , one in four women suffers domestic violence , and an increase in the reporting of rape in the last thirty years has gone alongside a threefold drop in conviction rates . In countries such as Ireland and Malta abortion is still not legal for all women , this can be seen as an important part of equality for woman that has not been achieved yet and needs to be fought for . If we take feminism as a global movement then the movement is still of huge importance . That 's because U.S. women still earned only 77 cents on the male dollar in 2008 , according to the latest census statistics . -LRB- That number drops to 68 % for African-American women and 58 % for Latinas . -RRB- These are all real problems , on which feminists continue to campaign - as they should . 	Feminism Has Plenty More To Achieve
On the individual level , the cartoonists and editors would have been wiser to look to their own selfish motivations for self-preservation ; they have received many death threats from religious leaders and organizations spanning the globe , in a situation reminiscent of Salman Rushdies publication of That Rushdies book had met with a similar reaction means that it should have served as a precedent showing what the reaction would be . As the editors should have been able to anticipate the threats they would receive if they were interested in their safety they should not have published . 	Factors motivating publication of the cartoons
The publication of the cartoons empowered the radical fringes of many Muslim populations , by enabling them to point to the cartoons as tangible evidence of an anti-Muslim bias and anti-Muslim agenda in the West . For instance , in Pakistan , these were used against the president , General Pervez Musharraf , who was perceived as being too closely aligned with the United States . Religious leaders who wanted to make the case that Denmark was deliberately offensive and a hostile environment for Muslims were able to conflate popular knowledge about the cartoon controversy with other incidents -LRB- some of them not even in Denmark -RRB- and sway support to their anti-ecumenical causes . This set back reasonable discourse in Muslim communities about how best to integrate with the West , and ultimately resulted in the weakening of internal forces that encourage acceptance of Western culture . Such a reversal for westernising forces is likely the opposite of what the newspaper would have wanted for the Muslim world . 	Radical and anti western voices in Islamic communities gained authority and legitimacy as a result of the newspapers ' actions
Printing the cartoons caused the severe exacerbation of already existing tensions between Muslims and Western communities in Europe and around the world . The terrorist attack on 9/11 , the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq , and the Israel-Palestine conflict had already set the stage for increased cultural animosity in the prior few years , and this was added fuel to the fire that resulted in violent attacks on Danish embassies around the world . As a result of this , innocent people died in riots in Afghanistan and Pakistan when riot police stepped in . Organized terrorist groups like the Al Qaeda network led by Bin Laden threatened violence against America and the European Union . Not only did this cause an emotional impact among Danish and European citizens as a result of increased worries of terrorist attacks , but given the number of terrorist plots that have cited the cartoons controversy as part of their inspiration , there is good reason to believe that the Denmark has become a less safe place as a result . Regardless of the original intention of the editors , they should have been able to see the controversy that would result and the likely practical outcomes of this and so restrain themselves from publishing . 	Violent reactions to the cartoons could have been predicted and should have been avoided
The cartoons effectively constituted a series of religious hate crimes , specifically designed to offend and target the Muslim community , whom the editors very well knew would be up in arms over the publication of the cartoons . This is the deliberate association of a venerated religious figure with terrorism . Not only is this in violation of Danish laws and European norms protecting minorities , but it is also simply malicious and immoral . There was already a widespread tendency to conflate Muslims with terrorists before the cartoons ; this high-profile incident risked exposing peaceful Muslims to prejudice , discrimination , and even physical danger from increased xenophobia . The cartoons controversy was soon followed by the desecration of Muslim graves at a cemetery in Denmark , for instance . Many US journalism companies had the better judgment to report on the issue without reprinting the cartoons . Similarly , the Danish newspaper could have run opinion pieces describing their qualms with and thoughts on Islamic censorship , without resorting to the vulgar methods they utilized . 	The cartoons constitute a religiously motivated hate crime
Although there are areas of government that we , the people , accept must be kept secret -LRB- such as security -RRB- , the vast bulk of government activity is open to scrutiny . Where it is not we and our elected representatives have the tools to find out why . The United States for example has the Freedom of Information Act . Corporations , by their nature , have to be secretive , they have an interest in their customers and competitors not knowing how they have , or plan to have , a market advantage . They tend not to want their customers to know how much of a product or services price is profit and so forth . An important component of liberty is knowing what is being done in your name and why , the corporate equivalent is knowing what is being banged with your buck . It is difficult to be free and ignorant at the same time . 	Government is , at least in theory , transparent and open to public criticism , corporations by their nature are secretive
In a democratic society the people are the ultimate arbiters of government policy and action . We are free to remove and replace all levels of government on a regular basis . Ultimately if we feel that government is not acting in accordance with our wishes . Its easy to attack the actions of government and indeed the concept of government itself as Republicans do frequently . However they tend to forget that it is by , or and for the people . It is the manifestation of the popular will . 	Ultimately , the make-up of the government is controlled by the electorate . Every four years - or more the people have the freedom to take control
The idea that free markets make for free people becomes derisible the moment you look outside the West . In the developing world unfettered corporations routinely act again the interests and wishes of the people . From the privatisation of natural resources in Latin America and Africa to undermining the prices charged by indigenous farmers the world over . Even Russia , the poster child of the Reagan revolution is now controlled jointly by a dictator and a handful of oligarchs . The so called free market is anything but free , it has simply created corporate behemoths that focus on this years profit reports , not the long term interests of the communities they destroy . Only government can protect the freedoms of these people in the face of corporate greed . 	Free market enterprise may be the friend of democracy in the West but not in the developing world
Anonymous posting can be used to make people believe you are someone who you are not . This can be done in order to acquire money from victims either by establishing a dishonest relationship or offering fraudulent business opportunities . It is also a frequently used tool in child abduction cases , where the perpetrator will pretend to be a child or even classmate to gain enough access to a child in order to make abduction viable . It is estimated that nearly 90 % of all sexual solicitations of youth are made in online anonymous chat rooms . Additionally , in the UK alone over 200 cases of meeting a child following online grooming , usually via anonymous sites are recorded . These are enormous harms that can be easily avoided with the removal of anonymous posting online . Online Fraud . Action Fraud . URL : Online child grooming : a literature review on the misuse of social networking sites for grooming children for sexual offences . Australian Institute of Criminology . URL : 	Reducing fraud using fake identities .
The BBC would quickly be left with a content either devoid of interest or of content were it to allow such a veto to become normative . Especially were it , as appears to be the case here , to offer such a veto to people who didnt watch the programme . As a result , although some of the responsibility for avoiding offence lies with the broadcaster at least an equal share must lie with the viewer . Even at the more basic level of will I like this , responsibility lies with both parties . The BBC undertakes to provide a diverse range of programming so that there is a reasonable chance that the overwhelming majority should be able to find something of interest but does so on the assumption that people will watch what they find interesting . Likewise , it is reasonable to assume that people will not go out of their way to watch things that they already expect to find offensive . 	It is simply impractical for a major international broadcaster to hand out powers of veto to small sectional interests .
The allegation made by those who objected to the airing of this show was that it was blasphemous . There were also objections to the graphic nature of the language and sexual reference . It seems staggeringly unlikely that 55,000 people had accidently been watching opera on BBC 2 having failed to watch any of the warnings in advance or the fairly extensive media discussion in advance of the broadcast . Therefore , those who watched it made a choice to do so and it seems reasonable to consider that an informed choice . A free society is predicated on the fact that adults have the right to make choices . In turn that is based on the shared understanding that those choices have consequences ; which may , potentially , cause some degree of harm to the person making that choice . Having been warned that watching the broadcast may cause them offence , viewers still chose to and some , it seems , were duly offended . It seems reasonable , therefore , to assume that the shock was either feigned or a matter of pretence . Which leaves the matter of blasphemy ; an offence against a belief system . There was no secret that religious issues were likely to feature in the broadcast and no secret was made of the fact that those views were likely to be both critical and forthright . Tuning in , specifically to be offended by something that the viewer had been warned they might find offensive seems perverse . By contrast , art lovers who wished to see the production - which had received four Lawrence Olivier Awards among other tributes had the opportunity to experience a theatrical work they would have had a limited opportunity to witness had it not been broadcast nationally . It would be bizarre to disadvantage those who wanted to and actually did see the performance -LRB- about 1.7 million -RRB- because of the views of those who neither wanted to see it or refused to do so 	This was a piece of art , advertised and described as such , those likely to be offended were quite welcome not to watch it .
The role of a public service broadcaster , especially one of the stature of the BBC , is to provide a portal for ideas from all perspectives . There are many who take either irritation or offence at the idea that the Corporation devotes a disproportionate time and resources to what , in modern Britain , is a strictly minority interest with fewer than seven per cent of people regularly attending religious worship . Many perceive commonly held positions in the mainstream churches let alone more extreme sects to be offensive or reactionary and , in some cases , a cover for homophobic , illiberal or sexist opinions . If religious opinion is to be granted this airtime for the benefit of a small , if vocal , minority then it seems both unfair and unprofessional for that broadcaster to be constrained by that groups views in relation to the rest of its output . The BBC , like most major broadcasters , meets the challenge of divergent or conflicting views by providing some output that is considered likely to be of interest to each viewpoint . 	Many people find the views expressed by much of the church offensive , those views are given airtime , a public service broadcaster should provide a level playing field for ideas .
The BBC is in an unusual position , simply because of its funding structure , to promote new or challenging works of art . The licence fee means that it is freed of many of the pressures brought to bear by either commercial or political masters . Although it has never taken that to mean it has a carte blanche , it does allow for opportunities simply not available to many broadcasters in terms showcasing new works of art and encouraging creative development . The BBCs global audience in 2007 was 233 million . That audience provides some context for the 1,500 who actively protested this particular broadcast . It seems reasonable to suggest that many of those millions follow the BBC because they trust the Corporations approach of providing the widest possible range of output and opinion . For such an organisation to capitulate to a prudish group who were outside BBC venues at the time so couldnt have seen the broadcast would be a huge betrayal of that trust . 	There is a duty for a broadcaster that is not dependent on either commercial or state funding to give a platform to controversial works of art .
Many Asian cultures have a preference for sons over daughters due to traditions involving inheritance . Further , in rural communities a son is often preferable to a daughter simply because of the amount of work that they can do for the family . As well as this , sons act as primary caregivers for the parents when they go into retirement and the sons parents are often treated better than the daughters . It is for these reasons that often when a Chinese family finds out that they are set to have a daughter they attempt to selectively abort it and try again for a son . This is technically illegal in China , however , this has only led to back alley abortions which often carry a much higher chance of mortality for the mother . Further , it has also led to parents abandoning female children or leaving them to starve so that they may try again with a son . In Chinas rural provinces it is much more difficult for the authorities to deal with every case given the sheer number of people over such a large area and as such these crimes often go unprosecuted or punished . This process not only leads to human rights violations , as mentioned , but it also skews the gender balance of the Chinese population . Specifically , since the implementation of the policy in 1979 many men are finding there are simply no women to marry . By 2020 it is estimated there will be 40 million men unable to marry in China simply because of the lack of females . Baculino , Eric . China Grapples with legacy of its missing girls . 09-14-2004 . 	The one child policy skews gender demographics
The one child policy is a policy that can be ignored fairly easily by richer people within China . Through their ability to bribe officials as well as their ability to hide extra children using foster parents and the like , it is easily possible for richer people to flout the one child policy . This has shown itself in the form of many wealthy Chinese officials , entrepreneurs and celebrities who have been caught ignoring the one child policy . For example between 2000 and 2005 1968 government officials in Hunan violated the one child policy . Given that this is true , the one child policy serves to create social division in China . It is perceived by the poorest Chinese communities as an obstacle to prosperity . By imposing harsh penalties -LRB- both moral and fiscal -RRB- on parents who attempt to maximise not only their future welfare , but also their familys economic prosperity by trying for a son , the one child policy undermines social development within Chinas rural and working classes . Moreover , it serves to entrench negative perceptions of Chinese officials and business owners as corrupt tyrants . How else will marginalised communities relate to a law that undermines the cohesion of their families and that the wealthy can exempt themselves from ? Liu , Melinda , Chinas One Child Left Behind , , 19 January 2008 , 	The one child policy is ignored by Chinas elite
The One Child policy is often strictly enforced in China and many parents are given information about contraception to prevent any chance of an unplanned pregnancy . However a large number of pregnancies - within any population - are inevitable , despite the precautions that parents may take . Whether as a result of defective medication , irresponsible behaviour , or simple bad luck , sufficiently frequent sexual activity will always lead to pregnancy . Reports from human rights workers indicate that the Chinese states deals with such eventualities by forcing women to have abortions against their will . By some accounts , the state directly detains and punishes women who resist family planning policies . The psychological trauma caused by this is almost indescribable . Not only does a forced abortion represent a significant attack on a womans bodily autonomy , procedures of this type are officially contextualised as correcting the results of wrongdoing . The woman is not counselled or assured that she is not morally culpable for her actions ; she is placed in a position where the destruction of her foetus is portrayed as the inevitable result of her own lack of responsibility . Chinese women are made to feel directly responsible for the loss of their unborn children or for the circumstances that gave rise to their pregnancy . Further the Chinese authorities often force people to be sterilised against their will . This has happened in some cases almost immediately after birth , which is incredibly traumatic for the people involved . Further , should these people ever leave China it prevents them from raising a family in the future with more than a single child . Again , forced sterilisation in this way causes large psychological harms due to the manner in which the persons body is violated . Life Site News . `` Forced Abortion Still a Reality in China Says New Amnesty Report . '' Life Site News . 27-05-2005 . Elegant , Simon . Why Forced Abortions Persist in China . 30-04-2007 . 	The one child policy results in sweeping human rights violations
The content of the book is not grounds for supressing its publication or use and so , all other things being equal , there should be a presumption in favour of publication . There is an entirely understandable interest in the publication of the book in a country where it is so notorious . Its important to bear in mind that this is not a bomb making manual and most experts feel that the arguments are weak to the point of absurdity and the commentary will serve to enforce that point . The content of the book , in and of itself , were not therefore grounds for continued suppression of the text . Generally speaking , it seems a relatively sensible rule of thumb that if there is no direct harm that can be shown as a result of publication and there is sufficient interest to merit doing so then it would normally be published . By doing so ahead of the end of the copyright , the state will prevent commercial publishers making a profit and this should dampen down the impact of its arrival . It is standard to take such a presumption in favour of publication in many other circumstances , even where some groups may find doing so offensive the Satanic Verses being a case in point . There is no doubt that the book also has an iconic significance but that might also be said of Das Kapital and , more explicitly , the works of Lenin and Mao but they remain in print for both scholarly and popular consumption . It seems sensible to treat Mein Kampf as just another book . If this were a recently discovered autobiography by another significant historical figure , it would almost certainly be published - even if it wasnt very good . Devji , Faisal , Does Salman Rushdie exist ? , , 13 March 2012 , 	It was not the powerful arguments that are made in Mein Kampf that led to the atrocities of Nazi Germany , mostly because there are none .
Extreme parties frequently thrive when they are able to present themselves as being suppressed by a supposed elite . Their ability to portray themselves as being unfairly silenced by a capricious elite has long been used to attract support by parties on the far-right in Europe and elsewhere . For example the far right National Democratic Party went to court to get its newsletter delivered by the postal service . Indeed , given the weakness of many of the arguments they make , silencing them has frequently been far more self-defeating than opening up their beliefs to scrutiny . As long as Mein Kampf remained unavailable it acquired the inevitable allure of the unattainable . The book could be presented as having a status far beyond what it is the ill thought-out and self-indulgent ramblings of a bad writer . At the moment the book is not , per se , banned , its just that the owners of the copyright havent allowed publication until now . As a result , come 2016 , there would have needed to be an intervention in the normal flow of events to prevent its subsequent publication ; Munichs Institute for Contemporary History had already said it would publish the book . This would have given the impression that mainstream German society was in some way afraid of the book or its contents and given credence to the suggestions of extremists that there is no effective response to their arguments . By publishing the book in this manner , the state removes both the allure of the hidden icon for devotees and any commercial interest for other publishers . Added to which , those prepared to plough through it -LRB- even Mussolini said that it was boring -RRB- will at least be rewarded with historical insights from leading scholars . Reuters , German far right in legal battle over free speech , , 29 June 2012 , Relax News , Mein Kampf to see its first post-WWII publication in Germany , 6 February 2010 , 	Banning the book would have simply increased its role as an iconic symbol .
If there were not already easy access to the book through the Internet , then it might be possible to argue that there was some practical purpose to be served by continuing its suppression . However , when any disaffected teenager can gain easy access to the text while sitting alone in their bedroom , it seems foolish that it can not also be examined in the cooler light of their history class . The issue is not access to the text ; its not even really about ownership of the book both of which are already possible but rather about how the book is treated . Not publishing or using the book up until now has simply maintained a situation that was put in place after WWII , which in some ways served a purpose , of saying there was no particular reason for a change at any particular time during that process . However , as the seventieth anniversary of the end of the war comes into view , it seems reasonable that the book should be treated as exactly what it is ; an interesting historical artefact , to be examined as one might any other . For example through Project Gutenberg , . 	The ban achieved no practical impact in the Internet age as it was not global .
Few industries have been changed more radically by the advent of the Internet than journalism . The traditional role of the journalist , disseminating information to which they had special or privileged access , has changed beyond recognition . Now readers and viewers have direct access to much of that information and can access it at their own convenience and through their own choice of media . Sales of newspapers are in freefall and the stranglehold of a handful of broadcasters on political access has been lost forever . There are still extraordinary journalists finding news and genuinely affecting the society around them . For the most part , however , journalists increasingly comment on the news rather than directly collecting it . In many ways , Assange has taken journalism back to basics acquiring information to which most people do not have access and making it public . The very fact that the powerful and the privileged dislike what he is doing so much could even be taken to suggest that he has to be doing something right as one of the roles of the fourth estate is to act as a check on government . At a time when much of the traditional media seems to have lost its sense of what its role is , Wikileaks is providing a timely reminder . Hume , Ellen , Freedom of the Press , , December 2005 , 	The concept of what is a journalist needs to be clarified to deal with the reality of new forms of mass communication . Assange gathers , collates and disseminates information , ergo , he is a journalist .
One of the things that the Leveson Inquiry has made all too apparent is that simply working for a newspaper or broadcaster is not a satisfactory definition of journalist . In terms of maintaining a professional ethic , the difference between those who hacked into phones including that of murdered schoolgirl Millie Dowler and the journalists who broke the story , Nick Davies and Amelia Hill could not be starker . Equally many popular blogs that focus exclusively on opinion or areas of news far more specialist than has traditionally been considered the role of the daily media . A more useful definition , it would seem , relates more to the ethics and aims of the individual or organisation involved . This has the advantage of ruling out those organisations devoted to advertising -LRB- such as listings magazines or shopping channels -RRB- or those focused purely on entertainment . A Journalist should therefore have a commitment to revealing and disseminating information that is held by those with power to those over whom they wield that power . This means that the journalist gains access to information through various sources and then publicises that information as a story . Anonymous sources such as those used by Assange are a key part of journalism with many of the biggest stories such as Watergate only being published because of anonymity . By such a definition , Assange would clearly qualify . This was clearly felt to be the case by the New York Times , the Guardian , Le Monde and others who reprinted his original material and drew conclusions from it . It would come as something of a surprise to such publications to discover they were not staffed by journalists . For a link to the inquirys website , click Myers , Steve , Study : Use of anonymous sources peaked in 1970s , dropped by 2008 , , 9 August 2011 , 	There is a difference between actual journalists and those who like having their names published in newspapers . Assange has far more claim to the description than many of them .
We know that most governments struggle with the idea of not having control over information and are suspicious of the media . In a pre-Internet age working with a handful of proprietors made controlling information far easier . Since the creation of the Internet , the idea of controlling the media has become harder , now there are those who can broadcast themselves directly ; a mass of information and opinion that doesnt rely on the patronage of publishers or political favour . Assange has simply taken a journalistic position that makes sense for the new media age . In contrast to the opinion driven mainstream press and much of the blogosphere , Wikileaks actually breaks new stories . New media requires new skills and attitudes of its journalists because the relationship with their readers has changed dramatically but the core of the role , speaking truth to power , remains the same . Furthermore they do so in such a way as allows them to publish their source material and allow the reader themselves to make a judgement as to whether their story really reflects that material . This ability , reflecting effectively limitless capacity for providing textual information , meets the frequently heard desire for news without spin routinely featured in research into peoples views on the press . This may be a new approach , just as Assange is a new type of Journalist but he is still a journalist . John Pilger and Julian Assange discuss citizen journalism . 	Governments have always struggled with the idea of press investigation and freedom of information , claiming Assange is not a journalist is simply a stunt .
People will naturally try to defend themselves , their family and their property when attacked . It is right that the state should recognize that this is the case and that this will sometimes involve applying force against an intruder . The current situation of allowing `` reasonable force '' is a common sense solution to the problem that allows for flexibility depending upon what the attacker is doing , it is right that this should be decided in the courts on a case by case basis rather than the government trying to work out a set of laws to determine what constitutes self-defense and what does not . Even if a right to self-defense was not recognized it would still be taken into account at trial . Juries are asked , when viewing a trial , to consider what a `` reasonable man '' would do in a given situation . Most jurors will surely acknowledge the right to self-defense in light of a threat to oneself , to one 's loved ones , and to one 's property . Even if the state were to officially invalidate self-defense , juries and citizens would still consider it as a mitigating , or entirely absolving circumstance . Nourse , V. 2001 . `` Self-Defense and Subjectivity '' . University of Chicago Law Review 68 . 	Recognizing a right to self-defense is simply recognizing what already occurs :
When an individual is under immediate threat he has every right to defend himself from an aggressor . Just as when a wild animal threatens someone 's life he has the right to do whatever he can to survive , so too does the individual have the fundamental right to defend himself from another human 's aggressive acts . This is a natural law , one that predates the existence of the social contract or the state . The right to self-defense extends also to the defense of other people , as it is no less a right for someone to preserve his own existence by any means necessary , but also that of others , particularly those dependent upon him , or otherwise unable to defend themselves . Furthermore , self-defense must extend to the protection of property , since it is in many ways part of an individual . A violation of one 's property is a violation of one 's self . When burglars and marauders choose to violate these fundamental rights they make the conscious decision to violate other individuals . It is just and proper that citizens be permitted to fight back to protect what is theirs by right . Carpenter , Catherine . 2003 . `` Of the Enemy Within , The Castle Doctrine , and Self Defense '' . Marquette Law Review 86 -LRB- 4 -RRB- . 	The right to life , liberty , and property are fundamental human rights , as is the right to defend them
Would-be criminals , when considering the commission of a crime , make an analysis of the likelihood of success and risk to themselves from their potential victims and from the state . The incentive to commit crime when it is illegal for people to defend themselves necessarily increases substantially . Even if the criminals assume some people will defend themselves anyway , they also know that people will likely hold back rather than fight . Denying the right to self-defense leaves innocents at the mercy of criminals who would violate their rights . On the other hand , the acknowledgement of the right to self-defense deters crime , as people will be unwilling to risk their own safety in order to commit crimes . Green , Stuart . 1999 . `` Castles and Carjackers : Proportionality and the Use of Deadly Force in Defense of Dwellings and Property '' . University of Illinois Law Review 1 . 	The knowledge that people have the right and capacity to defend themselves serves as a disincentive to crime :
People must , if the state wants people to retain faith in it and its ability to uphold the principles of justice , see justice as being done . Justice is not seen when people who defend themselves are punished for the `` crime '' of fighting back against those who would willfully violate their rights . When the state punishes people for the `` crime '' of defending themselves , it appears to be taking the side of the wrongdoer . It is true that everyone has rights , even criminals , but what is seen when people are punished for defending themselves is a placing of the rights of criminal over those of the real victims , who happened not to take the abuse of their assailants lying down . The state sends a grotesque message that people should either meekly acquiesce to the demands of criminals should they threaten them or the people and things they care about , or fight back and be punished for it . That is an unconscionable choice that the state can not legitimately expect people to make . When the state passes laws that appear unjust , it invites acts of protest , such as jury nullification . By challenging the right to self-defense , the state only serves to delegitimize itself and its laws in the eyes of its citizens . 	Recognition of the right to self-defense is essential for the state to show that it is on the side of innocents , not of criminals
The state 's primary duty is to protect its citizens , and to maintain order in society . To maintain its legitimacy the state must guard the lives , liberty , and property of its citizens , who allow it to curtail their rights in exchange for its protection . When crime is committed , it is a failure of the state . But crime in the best-run state is a reality . To make up for the inadequacies and inevitable shortcomings of the state , which can not be everywhere , individuals need the ability to make up for the shortfall of protection offered by the state . This is why self-defense is necessary . If the state denies the right to self-defense , while providing an inadequate security service , it allows a societal injustice to go uncorrected . Furthermore , the injustice inflicted by the state is uneven , as people in areas where there are fewer police and higher rates of crime people will of necessity have to resort to self-defense more often . This is the case , for example , in inner cities where policing is limited and poverty rates high . The need for self-defense is clear , since people are left to fend for themselves . Thus when the state fails people in poorer areas by providing them with inadequate services , it punishes them for trying to redress the failure . Kaufman , Whitley . 2009 . Justified Killing : The Paradox of Self-Defense . Lanham : Lexington Books . 	Crime is often the result of state failure , so the individual must defend himself when the state fails to do so :
High-rise housing is a successful housing solution when faced with the problem of population growth and urban migration . Urban migration , whereby populations flock to urban centres looking for work , leaves cities short on affordable housing , transport links and can either lead to inner-city poverty or urban sprawl . High-rise housing offers solutions to both problems by maximising the number of people that can live on a scarce , fixed amount of available land . In London , where transport and affordable housing are major problems , ` new tower blocks offer a way of alleviating both problems ' . In contrast , Melbourne , where the population is expected to rise by 3 million people by 2050 , ` better use of available city land has been identified as a key to maintaining Melbourne 's liveability , and halting urban sprawl ' . 	High-rise housing is a successful solution to the problems of urban migration and urban sprawl
Under-developed areas of urban environments can be reinvigorated and repopulated through the demolition of low-rise projects and their replacement with high-rise complexes . Such regenerations drive both interest and footfall into areas , fostering an economy within an economy in the area . We can learn from the mistakes that Western Europe and the US made in the past , for example by ensuring that there are job opportunities and shops located near the high-rise developments to sustain that interest and encourage residents to stay in the area . Several recent publications on high-rise housing schemes emphasize the importance of residents being there by choice as well as low child densities , but if these factors are in place , success is likely . Turning a decrepit area into a safe , booming and high-rise neighbourhood therefore removes the eye sore of a poor , low-rise slum and replaces it with the community and activity that high-rise housing provides . This increases the happiness of residents , stimulates economic activity in the area and keeps children busy and away from harmful influences . 	High-rise housing can form the basis of wider area regeneration
It can be more environmentally friendly as it can save a lot of space and energy , much cheaper to build than independent homes and in many ways easier to manage than the chaotic buildings and complex infrastructure , or lack thereof , that currently exists in slums and favelas . As developed Lorenz Grollo has stated there is a ` better , greener outcome when you get a bigger mass on the one footprint ' . The motivation for higher population densities also derives from a reduced need to travel which would in turn lower energy consumption and pollution . 	High-rise housing is more environmentally friendly than traditional forms of housing
Urban sociability can be promoted by high-rise housing that encourages chance meetings with neighbours through the sharing of mutual facilities , often in social settings . As such , they offer a distinct contrast with increasingly anti-social modern societies . Architect Lawrence Nield argues in modern citiesone leaves home in an air-conditioned car , arrives in the parking space beneath the office , and then goes by elevator to the office floor . There is very little chance for deliberate or accidental contact . There is little urban sociability . A high-rise complex , in contrast , according to architect Carl Fender , occupies very little land , so you get a lot of peoplecloser in to the facilities such as theatre , reception , gardensand you have safety and amenity . Socializing is implicitly encouraged in order to offset the disadvantages of those shared spaces , the peace and serenity of a private garden in a residential house is offset by the social atmosphere of shared facilities . 	High-rise housing is beneficial to urban sociability
Irrespective of homework 's educational value , marking it takes up much of teachers ' time . Australian teachers have complained that ` homework marking can result in four extra hours of work a day and they are rarely rewarded for their effort ' . This leaves teachers tired and with little time to prepare effective , inspiring lessons . If the lessons are n't to the standard they should be , the point of homework is lost as the students have little to practise in the first place . The heavy workload also puts young graduates off becoming teachers , and so reduces the talent pool from which schools can recruit . 	Marking homework reduces the amount of time teachers have to prepare good lessons
Homework takes a lot of time up . In America , they encourage the '10 minute rule ' , 10 minutes homework for every grade , meaning that high-school students are all doing more than an hour 's worth of homework each night . Being young is not just about doing school work every night . It should also about being physically active , exploring the environment through play , doing creative things like music and art , and playing a part in the community . It is also important for young people to build bonds with others , especially family and friends , but homework often squeezes the time available for all these things . 	Homework reduces the amount of time for students to do other activities
In many countries public schools require regular school inspections to ensure students are receiving a relatively equal level of education . In Britain for example , Ofsted is a public body that exists specifically to inspect public schools . A ban on homework would thus not require a level of trust between the state and individual school principals , for state inspectors could very quickly work out whether homework was being given out by asking the children themselves . Children , who do n't like homework at the best of times , would not lie . 	The ban on homework could be easily enforced through school inspections
Homework puts students off learning . Studies have shown that many children find doing homework very stressful , boring and tiring . Often teachers underestimate how long a task will take , or set an unrealistic deadline . Sometimes because a teacher has not explained something new well in class , the homework task is impossible . So children end up paying with their free time for the failings of their teachers . They also suffer punishments if work is done badly or late . After years of bad homework experiences , it is no wonder that many children come to dislike education and switch off , or drop out too early . Teachers in Britain fear that poor children , because they lack the support to do their homework , will be turned off school . 	Homework puts students off learning
Homework has little educational worth and adds nothing to the time spent in school . Some schools and some countries do n't bother with homework at all , and their results do not seem to suffer from it . Studies show that homework adds nothing to standardised test scores for primary / elementary pupils . As Alfie Kohn notes , no study has ever found a link between homework and better tests results in elementary school , and there is no reason to believe it is necessary in high school . International comparisons of older students have found no positive relationship between the amount of homework set and average test scores - students in Japan and Denmark get little homework but score very well on tests . If anything , countries with more homework get worse results ! 	Homework has little educational worth , and therefore is a waste of students ' time
Many governments make their schools give students a national test -LRB- a test taken by all students of the same age -RRB- . After the tests , they compare schools and punish the schools and teachers whose students do badly . Because schools and teachers are therefore scared about their students doing poorly , they give them more homework , not in the hope they learn more but simply to do better on the tests . As such , homework is not designed to help the student , just their teachers and schools who want them to ` win ' the test and make them look good , not learn for the students ' own benefit . 	Homework is about 'winning ' on tests , not learning
Assistance from the US would ensure that the coup leaders of Guinea Bissau remain in power . The securitisation of issues such as drugs and terror is encouraged by the United States . A major problem with this policy is that it provides undue power and legitimacy to those countering the threat . In early 2014 , the military were still unconstitutionally ruling over the country . The drug war provides an external threat for the military to justify their leadership position . Considering the military has refused to allow democratic elections to occur and has regularly committed coups , the US drug war could be a perfect excuse for to remain in power until the threat subsides . 1 -RRB- Crick , E. Drugs as an existential threat : An analysis of the international securitization of drugs , , 2012 2 -RRB- BBC , Guinea-Bissau drug trade rises since coup , 31 June 2012 	Gives power to military coup leaders
A small African country should not ignore one sixth of the worlds population . To recognise a tiny country of 23million over one of 1.3 billion is being unjust to a huge portion of humanity . When there is such an imbalance in population it is clear that the democratic path is to recognise the side with the greater population . When all the states that have recognised Taiwan finally transfer recognition to the PRC Taiwan may finally recognise that it would be best off returning to China . By changing its recognition So Tom and other small countries can do their bit to ensure peace in East Asia . 	Should not ignore the will of 1.3billion
The PRC is a member of the United Nations Security Council and as such is one of the key members of the UN . It is therefore difficult for countries to avoid dealing with it . The Pacific island of Tongas switched recognition because it feared the PRC would veto its membership of the UN . So Tom is already a member but that does not mean the PRC cant cause problems in the international body ; it clearly has the ability to scupper any initiative So Tom wishes to pursue . Similarly in other international institutions while the PRC does not wield as much power as it does in the UN it still has considerably more influence than Taiwan ; this includes over some organisations that provide aid such as the World Bank and IMF . So Tom therefore must deal with the PRC , this being the case it should not let recognition get in the way . Fossen , Anthony Van , The Struggle for Recognition : Diplomatic Competition between China and Taiwan in Oceania , , Col. 12 , No . 2 , 2007 , , p. 4 	Can not avoid dealing with a UNSC member
The Chinese civil war is over , and it is clear that it is the Peoples Republic that has won . The 1992 consensus -LRB- though the term was coined later -RRB- between Taiwan and the PRC is that there is one China , Different Interpretations about who controls that China . If there is only one China then it is clear which of the two Chinas that one is . The PRC is 266 times larger than RoC , has 58 times the population , and its economy is 13.7 times bigger -LRB- by purchasing power parity -RRB- . States should be recognising the PRC as the one China . Kan , Shirley A. , China/Taiwan : Evolution of the One China Policy Key Statements from Washington , Beijing , and Taipei , , 26 August 2013 , , p. 47 All figures from The World Factbook , China and Taiwan pages , 	PRC is clearly the China that matters
Africa is the least developed continent in the world and will struggle to independently maintain a specialised counter-terrorism force . Thirty four of its fifty four states are classed as least developed countries . The result of poor funding and bad governance is a decreased efficiency of security and military services in these states . In turn , this has resulted in destabilisation of the region . Wages , training , and military equipment are expenses which few African countries can afford alone . Kenya , for example , had to disband its Police Reserve unit in 2004 as unpaid officers had turned to corruption to ensure a decent wage , despite the need to combat terrorism in the state as shown by the attack on Nairobis Westgate shopping mall . Aid from the United States enables these African states to field financially viable forces which can then participate in counter-terrorism . Before military aid was cut to Egypt in 2013 , the US provided $ 1.3 billion annually to support one of the strongest militaries on the continent . The World Bank Least Developed Countries Boniface , B. , Kenya to revive police reservists in Garissa to fight al-Shabaab BBC US withholds Egypt military aid over crackdown 	African states cant afford the full cost
The United States has one of the most elite and experienced counter-terrorism forces in the world , Africa could only benefit from the help they offer . Branches of the US military which specialise in counter-terrorism , such as the US Navy SEALs and Delta Force , receive rigorous training and have gained experience from numerous operations . Many African states lack the ability to train and utilise such forces , which is why US help is welcome . US military advisers were sent to Uganda to help combat the Lords Resistance Army -LRB- LRA -RRB- and assisted with an impact disproportionate to its size . Between 2011 and 2013 , the LRAs attacks were halved and the conflicts death toll decreased by 67 % . The experience that these forces provide is visibly valuable for Africas counter-terrorism activities . Shanker , T. , Armed U.S. Advisers to Help Fight African Renegade Group BBC , US forces join jungle search for Kony 	Specialism of the United States in counter terrorism
Imperialism and Colonisation is one of the great wrongs of history where much of the globe was carved up without any reference to the facts on the ground . When the west drew borders peoples were split , and kingdoms and cultures carved up . Independence may have ended some of the worst aspects of imperialism but it exacerbated the problem of borders . Africa has since seen the problems that this has created and should realise the need to break from the colonial legacy . 	Ethnic borders erase a wrong of history
In Africa borders are artificial often running through ethnic groupings without consideration for culture or even local geography with the exception of water courses . Altering these borders to reflect ethnicities and culture would help states to create their own national identity as their identities would not be split . Having the whole of an ethnicity within one state will help prevent misappropriation of culture and history by another state . 	Ethnic borders allow nation states
Some markets in sex should be blocked . Markets that involve child labor , forced labor or sex , and forced migration and detention , should be stopped and those who organize and profit from such markets should be prosecuted . As with any service , it is critically important that no one is forced to work or to continue working , either through the threat of harm or through fraud and deception . It is also critically important that children are protected from sexual predators , and are excluded from all aspects of sex businesses . Forced labor and child sexual abuse involve violations of basic human rights that all societies are expected to protect . Voluntary , adult sex work is significantly different from trafficking , and law enforcers need to distinguish market exchanges involving consensual sex among adults from market exchanges involving forced sex among adults or involving minors . By legalizing voluntary , adult sex work , law enforcers and rights protectors could focus their efforts on eliminating markets that involve the sexual abuse of adults or children . Additionally , clients of sex business would have the choice of patronizing legal business , and therefore would be less likely to patronize inadvertently a business that relies on forced or child labor . 	Legalization would free up resources that could be devoted to eliminating sex trafficking
Criminalizing the acts of selling and buying sexual services does not protect those who sell or buy such services , but rather pushes these activities underground . While market exchanges of sexual services involve some risk-taking , the risks are increased and compounded when such markets are prohibited . When selling and buying sex is illegal , those participating in these exchanges can not , or simply do not , seek the protection of the law when their rights are violated . Because crimes against sex workers or their clients are often unreported , and when reported often not investigated , predators and rights violators can take advantage of others without fear of arrest and punishment . Moreover , because criminalization forces sex work into remote and invisible corners of society , sellers and buyers are less able to insure their safety and protection . For these reasons , laws criminalizing sex markets amplify the risks sellers and buyers face when they participate in sex market transactions . The main purpose of criminalizing sex markets is to protect those who enter such markets from harm . Yet the harms of paying or accepting money for a good that can be legally exchanged for free are far less than the harms that result from the rights violations that often occur -LRB- robbery , battery , sexual assault , murder -RRB- when sex markets are pushed underground . 	Prohibition does more harm than good
Sexual autonomy means being able to control when , where , and with whom one has sexual relations . It also means that , at any moment , one may withdraw from a sexual relationship or encounter . Spouses , lovers , and also strangers have the right to sexual autonomy . If an adult chooses to engage in sex with other adults who offer material benefits , her right to sexual autonomy is respected as long as she has control over when , where , and with which clients she has sexual relations , and as long as she is mentally competent and is allowed to terminate the agreement at any time . If markets in sex were to become legal , the rights of providers -LRB- and clients -RRB- to sexual autonomy would need to be respected . This means that sex workers would maintain the right to refuse service to any customer , and to discontinue service or employment at any time and for any reason . Like other workers , sexual service providers would have the right to a safe and healthy work place . Workers who are drug dependent , or otherwise incompetent or highly vulnerable in the work place , would need to be provided treatment and time off work until they were capable of protecting themselves and others . 	Markets in sexual services can respect sexual autonomy
While many societies have attempted to restrict sex to marriage , few -LRB- if any -RRB- have succeeded . In contemporary , secular liberal societies , adults are no longer punished for pursuing sex outside of marriage . Many adults find non-marital sex satisfying , healthy , and fulfilling , whether it occurs in the context of an ongoing romantic relationship , a casual friendship , or a market exchange . While many people will never seek the services of a sex worker , those who do are often seeking sensual comfort , companionship , entertainment , and fantasy fulfilment . While the latter goods are often obtainable in non-market relationships , some people prefer the convenience and efficiency of market mechanisms for securing these goods . In a liberal society , individuals are free to pursue their own vision of happiness , as long as they respect the moral and civil rights of others . Markets that provide sexual services enable some individuals to secure goods essential to their happiness . Those who provide services to these individuals can do so in a manner that respects their rights and dignity , if the markets are legal and well regulated . 	Markets in sexual services can serve legitimate needs
Removing criminal penalties from the sale or purchase of sexual services , and regulating sex markets so that they protect participants and non-involved third parties , would be socially beneficial . In particular , sex enterprises and businesses could be made safer for workers , clients , and the communities in which they operated . By allowing sex businesses to operate openly , providers , clients , and business owners can become law-abiding , productive citizens , who contribute to their communities . Sex businesses and workers would pay taxes , and other licensing fees . Business owners would be expected to comply with standard business laws and regulations . Moreover , the government could enact special regulations appropriate to this industry , such as age restrictions on workers and clients , and mandatory condom use . The resources that are currently allocated to arrest , prosecute , and incarcerate sex workers and clients could be reallocated for better uses . For example , these resources could be used to better address the sexual abuse of minors , sexual assault , substance abuse , mental health problems , and the many public and individual needs that go unmet . 	Legalization has benefits for society
The public is at risk from people with known dangerous mental health problems . Two people are killed every month by Care in the Community patients in the UK -LRB- Care in the community described in Scrapbook -RRB- . Jonathan Zito was stabbed to death by Christopher Clunis in 1992 ; Jason Mitchell beheaded his father and strangled two pensioners in 1994 ; Stephen Laudat killed his grandfather in 1994 , believing him to be the gang leader Ronnie Kray ; John Rous stabbed care worker Jonathan Newby to death in 1995 ; Michael Stone killed Lin and Megan Russell in a field near their home in 1996 . All of these killers had diagnosed mental illnesses but could not be detained under UK law , yet if they had been detained many lives would have been saved . Currently , people with mental health problems who have not committed an offence may only be detained for the purposes of treatment , and may avoid treatment if they can argue that they will receive no benefit from it . There is no known effective treatment for Dangerous Severe Personality Disorder -LRB- DSPD -RRB- . This means that people with DSPD fall through a gap between the criminal justice system and the healthcare system they can not be treated , so they never get less dangerous , but they can not be detained , so the public can not be protected from them . Furthermore it seems it is not unreasonable to detain people who you have good grounds to suspect could be dangerous as we already detain potentially dangerous people who do not have mental health problems anyway , if authorities believe they may be terrorists . 1 . 	It is important for the protection of the public .
As a society we should put effort into helping those suffering from mental illness and detention is one way of being sure that they are receiving and maintain treatment . This also means that doctors are able to keep an eye on patients so that if the patient is no longer a risk , they can be let out . If patients are detained then doctors will have a better idea of their patient 's usual behaviour and therefore be better at reading their symptoms . 	It will ensure people are receiving the correct treatment
The 2007 British mental health act was actually created partly in order to update the Mental Health Act 1983 so that it conforms to current human rights law . The process of sectioning ensures this by having two separate doctors diagnose the patient as both mentally ill and a threat to themselves or others ; these diagnoses are then presented to an independent AMP -LRB- approved medical practitioner -RRB- who makes the decision about whether or not the individual can be detained . If a doctor or AMP believes this should be extended to 28 days , then the process is repeated again independently . Therefore they should be no concerns about these detentions violating anyone 's human rights . 	Any detention bill will have to be in line with human rights .
People who are mentally ill are significantly more of a danger to themselves than to others with only 5 % of homicides being committed by people with mental illness . Detention is one way of preventing people suffering from mental illness to harm themselves or anyone else , and this must be in the best interest of the patient . Some people who are mentally unwell may attempt to commit suicide or get caught up in a cycle of self deprecating thoughts . However , patients in detention can be monitored ; therefore similarly to the issue of Argument One , it seems important to detain patients in order to save them from themselves . 	We have a duty to the patient 's best interest .
A planned economy requires that the planners have the information necessary to allocate resources in the right way . This is a virtually impossible task . The world contains trillions of different resources : my labour , iron ore , Hong Kong harbour , pine trees , satellites , car factories etc . . The number of different ways to use , combine and recombine these resources is unimaginably vast . And almost all of them are useless . For example , it would be a mistake to combine Arnold Schwarzenegger with medical equipment and have him perform brain surgery . Centralised planning can not possibly sort through the myriad of way of arranging resources to arrive at the most efficient usage . Only a decentralised price system can achieve this via the institution of private property and associated duties and rights . 	It is impossible to acquire the information necessary to create a coherent economy
Even the leaders of those European political parties that still call themselves socialist tend to avoid the word . Broadly speaking even the leaders of the left - outside Cuba and Colombia - accept the basic principles of Market economics and recognise that high-tax , high-spend economics simply does not work . Like it or not borders are now open and the idea that the state can control the flow of capital is a thing of the past . As a result people generally are richer and the idea that there a solid class block is simply no longer relevant to their lives . 	Even the leaders of the Left have given up on Socialism as a creed and have now accepted the vast majority of modern Capitalist principles
There is clearly a difference between the general malaise of those protesting the result of the financial crisis and any form of coherent ideology or manifesto for government . The only people pretending that protesters in Athens or Rome or the Occupy movement worldwide are in some meaningful way Socialists are aging class warriors from the seventies . The Occupy movement may well count many social liberals among its members , and these individuals are almost certainly unhappy about many aspects of modern Capitalism but that doesnt make Occupy , or the Athens street protestors Socialist . 	Although there are protests as a result of the banking crisis and the resulting financial meltdown , they have no cohesive ideology
Global economic forces have rendered socialism powerless . Financial speculation , and investment flows can make or break economies , and the agents who channel these monies want to see countries liberalise , privatise and de-regulate more . This is being shown by the speculative attacks on Eurozone countries where the markets are showing they can force governments to implement tough austerity or even force changes in government without an election as has happened in Greece and Italy where technocrats have taken over as Heads of Government . These more flexible markets generate higher levels of growth and prosperity , and provide higher returns on investment , encouraging more . Countries which try to resist globalisation and liberal economic markets , as in old Europe , suffer stagnant growth and higher unemployment as a result . Old socialist-style economic models of tight economic regulation and central planning are unsustainable . 	Globalisation has made socialism impractical to implement
The world has moved on ; it is inconceivable that the protests of the seventies and eighties could be refought again . This issue was settled at the end of the eighties . It wasnt just the collapse of the Soviet Union , although that no doubt played a major role in shaping the future of socialism in Europe . In a globalised world the traditional ideas about class and the nature of the labour market have moved on and politics moved on with it . Socialists may have won many of the arguments over social issues , but arguments on the advantages of free trade , deregulation , the role of the state , the relationship between government and industry all line up firmly in the Capitalist column . There were some remnants of dogmatic , classical socialism left in continental Europe , especially amongst its union movements , which are now collapsing . As Margaret Thatcher put it , The problem with Socialism is that you will eventually run out of other peoples money . 	Socialism was a twentieth century ideology which ran its course and ran out of steam when it became clear that Capitalism worked better
In the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in article 23 Everyone has the right to work to just and favourable conditions of work and article 24 Everyone has the right to rest and leisure , including reasonable limitation of working hours and periodic holidays with pay both relate to a fundamental freedom from being forced to work too hard . Working for too many hours per week can affect health , wellbeing and productivity over the medium to longer term . In extremis , as we can see in the karoshi phenomenon in Japan , people can work themselves to an early grave . Even in less extreme examples , we can see health issues affecting productivity and causing medical problems which require paying to treat . The WHO estimates that work related stress costs $ 300bn p.a . in the US , to take one example . It goes without saying that all this avoidable stress and medical trouble needs paying for . That the businesses themselves manage to push those costs onto wider society or the state doesnt make those costs go anywhere from the point of view of an economy as a whole . Therefore a maximum working week prevents business from externalising costs to others . 	A maximum working week provides protection for workers .
Human beings require downtime in the form of sleep and rest in order to maintain their peak functioning . Long working hours cut into this rest and sleep time and therefore reduce their effectiveness as workers . A cap on the amount of work that people do per week allows for proper rest periods . Tired workers are prone to making mistakes , one of the mistakes they can make is to think they can skip necessary sleep with no ill effects . `` While some people may like to believe that they can train their bodies to not require as much sleep as they once did this belief is false '' A mandatory cap on the hours they work removes the decision from them and avoids this problem . 	There must be a maximum amount of performance that people are capable of , given rest and reward . To work people too long is to waste their potential .
According to the CIA World Factbook , non-industrialised countries have an average of 30 % unemployment and industrialised nations have somewhere between 4-12 % unemployment . Underemployment is considered to be even higher , though precise figures are by their very nature impossible to acquire . By capping the working hours of those in employment , the unemployed stand an increased chance of entering the workforce . With no option but to hire more staff , businesses will have no choice but to hire the currently out of work to fulfil their labour requirements . This is economically beneficial , as the costs of long term unemployment to an economy are enormous . In industrialised countries the unemployed are already being paid via taxes , with this change there can be at least some productivity from them . 	There should be a legally mandated ceiling on weekly working hours , because it creates employment .
One of the most fundamental principles of economics is that of supply and demand . By artificially reducing the supply -LRB- of hours -RRB- then demand must increase for other labour , ceteris paribus . The only question once that is realised is what limit should there be on working hours to ensure full employment . -LRB- Or employment at maximum practical capacity . -RRB- The purpose of the economy is to serve people , and having a large percentage of people excluded when there is an easy and obvious fix is to fail in the economies mission . 	Introducing a cap on working hours would reduce unemployment .
Creating a mandatory retirement age ensures that businesses will be able to maintain employees pension plans and healthcare schemes . In many liberal democracies that operate without centralised , government sponsored welfare systems , the support provided by employers insurance systems is the only means of obtaining hospital care or a retirement income for a large number of working age individuals . Many firms also offer so-called defined benefit pension plans to their workers . Pensions of this type guarantee that a worker will receive a certain , regular level of income on retirement an amount calculated according to a fixed formula that takes account of an employees salary and the length of their service with a company . As the Ford motor company attempted to do in 2010 , many firms will attempt to remove older employees who show no desire to retire of their own volition . The older an employee is at the point of retirement , the more money - under a defined benefit plan - a firm will have to pay out in the form of pension contributions . Further , as individuals age they will represent more of a risk in terms of healthcare liabilities . As an individual ages , the likelihood that she will develop chronic diseases such as cancer increases . The greater the aggregate age of a companys workforce , the more likely it is that the company will , at some point , have to cover the costs of treating a serious illness . Two specific harms result from this situation . First , employers will become reluctant to hire older individuals , aware of the increased risk that their productivity may be affected by an illness that will be treated at their firms expense . Second , as employees age , their retirement settlements will constitute an ever increasing burden on their employer . Life spans across the western world are collectively increasing . The longer an employee remains in work , the larger their pension , the greater the liability they represent to a business . As a consequence , between the cost of maintaining a previous generations pension settlements and the cost of treating the afflictions of longer-lived workers , it is highly likely that some employee support schemes will collapse . Other schemes , as has occurred in many UK businesses , will be closed off to new employees . Either way , the obstacle presented by an aging workforce will deny a younger generation the chance to benefit from schemes and subsidies that their employer provided to their fathers and grandfathers . 	Maintaining access to pension and healthcare plans
Climate change is the biggest problem facing our planet and it requires urgent action for us to shift to a low-carbon economy . Shale gas is simply another fossil fuel , releasing carbon into the atmosphere when it is burnt to provide power . As the Tyndall Centre warns While it is possible that shale gas could substitute for coal , within the UK , this would likely be counteracted by global use of coal and shale gas . So rather than replacing even dirtier coal as a source of power , it is likely simply to augment it , feeding our wasteful societys insatiable appetite for energy . Indeed , if shale gas lowers the price of fossil fuels , it may contribute further to the problem by encouraging a continued rise in energy consumption . Worse , by taking investment from renewable energy sources such as solar , tidal and wind energy , shale gas may postpone the necessary shift to a low-carbon economy . 	Shale gas does not help prevent climate change .
Given that some of the negative consequences from hydraulic fracturing processes may take many years to emerge , the precautionary principle should be applied . Applying the precautionary principle would mean changing the burden of proof from environmentalists having to prove that fracking does cause harm in each circumstance to it being the oil and gas firms who have to prove that fracking is safe . As a result fracking should be stopped all together or at the very least greatly reducing the amount of fracking leaving only a few fields in operation so that the effects of the process can be studied and as a result sufficient legislation but in place to regulate the industry . Until it can be prove these methods are entirely safe , hydraulic fracturing should be stopped and the shale gas industry denied further drilling permits . 	The Precautionary Principle should be applied .
The residents of areas where shale gas is found and drilling may occur have a right to maintain their health , something which drilling may affect . Dangerous chemicals are pumped into rock formations that are also the source of groundwater for millions of people . In 2008 a hydrologist found benzene in a water well in Wyoming above where fracking was occurring . Dramatic film of inflammable gas leaking through drinking water pipes underlines the risks posed by this uncontrolled experiment under our homes . Companies are in denial over these dangers , but their refusal to come clean about exactly what chemicals they are using is hardly reassuring . While there is a chance that lives are at risk , either from water contamination or from gas explosions as a result of the fracking such risky methods of extracting natural gas should be banned . 	Human health should come before material gain .
Expanding shale gas extraction would be very damaging to the environment as the process requires a large number of small wells to be drilled in each gas field , Ohio for example has 80,000 fracked wells , by comparison only 10,000 have been drilled in the UK part of the North Sea since 1964 . This means beautiful rural areas will be spoiled by the presence of many gas rigs , each with its accompanying pipes , buildings , tracks , etc . . Agricultural and amenity land will be lost and wildlife disturbed . And heavy construction traffic will ruin roads and create noise pollution for nearby residents . 	Extraction of shale gas is damaging to the environment .
Western liberal democratic economies are no longer able to rely on large scale manufacturing , natural resources extraction , shipping or heavy industry to provide jobs and growth . The creation of knowledge and service economies and the movement of mining and manufacturing activities to the developing world mean that the economies of Europe , the United Kingdom and America are now driven by innovation and research . Western economies are reliant on the creation of new forms of product and service and the refinement of existing ones . Although an economy of this type makes the best use of the high liquidity and highly educated workforces of liberal democratic countries , it also carries with it a high burden of risk . Research - into power generation , into pharmaceuticals - may not yield results within a predictable period of time . It may not produce any useful knowledge at all . However viable a particular project may seem , technology , IT and pharmaceutical companies must habituate themselves to risk taking in order to remain competitive and relevant within their respective markets . Western nations are no longer in a position where they can rely on simple , easily modelled forms of economic production . Consequently , it is necessary to adopt an approach to corporate debt and bankruptcy that allows high risk development and research to be pursued freely , and for successful projects to be fully realised . Bankruptcy laws in the United Kingdom and Europe impose onerous penalties on businesses and business owner that are unable to meet the demands of their creditors . Floundering businesses are rapidly liquidated by creditors , while the executives and directors of bankrupt firms may find themselves made personally or criminally liable for failed businesses . A businesss bankruptcy can result in its owners losing homes , being barred from holding directorial positions and prevented from obtaining credit for any purpose . Allowing such an inflexible approach to dominate a business environment where growth is dependent on companies willingness to engage in research and experimentation - on their willingness to take risks - will have a chilling effect . Men and women with bright ideas will be afraid to pursue them . The dynamism evident in the United States economy has been fostered , in part , by Chapter 11 . 	Shifting the balance between risk and innovation .
Chapter 11 can help to protect the interests of both creditors and a businesss other stakeholders , such as employees , suppliers and pension schemes . Traditional processes of liquidation are designed to quickly wind up a company while disposing of its assets in as profitable a fashion as possible . This , inevitably , results in job losses and may also lead to the collapse of pension funds . There may also be any number of small suppliers who are reliant on a bankrupt companys business who may be adversely affected by the decision to liquidate . It is partly true that a bankruptcy administered under Chapter 11 often takes longer to discharge creditors debts . However , the benefits of paying creditors off faster , or of allowing creditors to recover fractionally more of the sums leant to a company are outweighed by a Chapter 11-style reorganisations ability to do justice to those who are dependent on the company in other ways . Employees interests are protected through the continuation of their employment . Apprentices and junior professionals on training contracts will be able to complete their qualifications . Concurrently , local communities will also avoid the burden of a sudden , localised rise in unemployment . Suppliers can continue to contract with the company in the medium term ; Chapter 11 guarantees payment on orders sent to a company by suppliers during the first twenty days before it files for Chapter 11 protection . Small , peripheral creditors , who are unable to afford the intensive legal counsel enjoyed by large banks , stand a greater chance of seeing their debts repaid if the company can be returned to profitability , rather than dismantled to service its weightiest debts . 	Protecting the interests of stakeholders
If the drinking age were lowered , the perceived need to binge drink would be removed too . A 2009 survey showed that , in the US , there was a higher rate of binge drinking among high school students -LRB- 41.8 % -RRB- who reported current alcohol use than among adults where , even in high-risk categories , binge-drinking rates did not rise above 25.6 % . Limited alcohol consumption can actually be beneficial for a persons health , and is linked to a lower risk of coronary heart disease in healthy men and women . The drinking age should be lowered to remove the glamorisation of alcohol and resultant binge drinking , and instead focus on frequent but moderate alcohol consumption . 	Lowering the age limit would create healthier long-term drinking habits .
By imposing a high drinking age in the US and the UK , illegal drinking is seen as even more attractive because it is exclusive . For many teenagers , underage drinking is seen as a way to gain respect from their peers and appear cool , or to feel more at ease in social situations . The very fact that it is illegal makes it a target for teenagers to gain social status by drinking , as is true for other illegal substances such as marijuana . Because it is harder to get , when young people manage to obtain alcohol they tend to have high rates of binge-drinking . Lowering the drinking age would remove this illicit appeal and encourage people to drink more moderately when they do drink . 	A high drinking age makes alcohol even more attractive to minors
Surveys at East Carolina University in the US found that when the drinking age was raised from 19 to 21 , 22 % of students reported that they intended to use other drugs as drinking became illegal for people of their age . Meanwhile , in Arizona , surveys before and after the drinking age was raised from 19 to 21 found no reduction in alcohol consumption among their students . Raising the drinking age , therefore , does not necessarily mean a reduction in alcohol consumption , and more worryingly could push people towards other substances which are dangerous and difficult to regulate or police . The legal system should acknowledge high rates of underage drinking and change to reflect the reality of drinking patterns . 	A high drinking age could lead young people to turn to drugs and other substances instead .
While the current drinking age is 18 in the UK and 21 in the US , both countries grant other legal rights to people below this age . For example , both countries grant the right to have sex or join the army at a lower age than this . This recognition of maturity should also encompass the right to drink ; if young people are responsible enough to fight for their country or have sex , they should be responsible enough to have a drink . In any case , studies show that many underage young people have tried alcohol ; it is clear that the current legal restrictions do not work . 	Young people should have the right to choose .
Life is not entirely about the world of work , and society as a whole benefits from a more educated citizenry . Equally , a Masters degree provides benefits to the individual in terms of a deeper understanding of both their subject and the world around them . There is compelling evidence of the relationship between education and areas like civic participation as well as personal ; benefits in terms of health , life expectancy and family stability . Although participation in the labor market is a primary concern for most , it is far from to the only reason to engage in post graduate study . The increasingly business and industry led courses that many UK universities are opting to run often understate the benefit to society that results from promoting learning for learnings sake . 	Advanced study encourages deeper thinking and enhances research and critical skills , leading to a more informed citizenry
A Masters degree increases knowledge - both in terms of quantity and quality - as it allows for a more refined study of the field . However , a Masters also enhances many of the softer skills that employers routinely say that they want . Attributes such as critical and creative thinking are developed by higher study and requirements such as giving presentations or tutoring junior students help with communication skills . This benefit that an MA or an MSc provides for an employer is rewarded by a higher salary to the employee . Between the ages of 25 and 64 Americans with Masters degrees earn around $ 250,000 more over the course of their careers . 	Higher study increases peoples understanding of their chosen field and therefore an increase in the total number increases the productivity of that sector as a whole
A Masters degree helps candidates stand out from the crowd especially in professions where a first degree is commonplace . As well as demonstrating greater knowledge , research Masters in particular , show that the candidate has the ability to motivate themselves and deliver a project largely under their own supervision . Furthermore in some areas , such as education , the possession of a Masters is now so commonplace that a failure to have one simply moves that application to the bottom of the pile . 	A Masters increases employability and gives graduates an added edge in the employment market
Protecting endangered species helps protect humans : Humans actually benefit in a large number of ways from the protection of endangered species and thus continuing biodiversity . Firstly , the diversity of life and living systems is considered by many scientists to be a necessary condition for human development . We live in a world built on a carefully balanced ecosystem in which all species play a role , and the removal of species from this can cause negative consequences for the whole ecosystem , including humans . There is also the potential for almost any species to hold currently-unknown future benefits to humans through products they could provide . One example of this is the scrub mint , an endangered plant species which has been found to contain an anti-fungal agent and a natural insecticide , and thus holds great potential for use that benefits humans . Endangered species have also been known to hold the key to medical breakthroughs which save human lives . One example of this is the Pacific yew -LRB- a tree species -RRB- which became the source of taxol , one of the most potent anticancer compounds ever discovered . Biodiversity also helps protect humans in that different species ' differing reactions to ecological problems may in fact act as a kind of ` early warning ' system of developing problems which may one day negatively affect people . This was the case with the -LRB- now banned -RRB- dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane -LRB- DDT -RRB- pesticide , as the deterioration of the bald eagle and the peregrine falcon through their exposure to DDT in fact alerted humans to the potential health hazards of this pesticide , not just to animals but also to humans . Thus the preservation of endangered species helps to protect humans , as this means plants and animals continue to play their specific role in the world 's ecosystem which humans rely on , can act as an ` early warning ' for problems which may affect humans , and may hold the key to scientific and medical breakthroughs which can greatly benefit humanity . Al this could be lost through the careless extinction of plant and animal species . 	Protecting endangered species protects the interests of humans
Human moral responsibility to other species : Humans are unique and unprecedented in life on earth in that their intelligence and sentience far surpasses that of any other species ever known to have existed . Humans are not simply forced to kill or ignore other species by instinct alone , as other species are , but rather can make a variety of choices based not only on information but on moral grounds . Thus with our greater power comes a greater responsibility to act in a moral fashion , and not simply to prioritize our own human good over that of other species . The ability of animal species , for example , to feel pain and suffering is something we should consider and try to avoid , as we recognise that pain is bad for ourselves , and thus must be bad for animals as well . Similarly if we believe our own survival is a good thing , we should recognise that the survival of other species is also a moral good , and act accordingly to protect endangered species . 	Humanity bears a moral responsibility to other species
Human moral responsibility to future generations : Species extinction is an irrevocable occurrence . Outside of the film ` Jurassic Park ' , extinct species can not be summoned back from the grave once human action has put them there . This means that when a current generation makes the decision not to protect an endangered species and thus allows human action to drive it to extinction , this denies future generations the ability to make up their own minds about the pros and cons of the survival of that endangered species , especially considering that they might want that species to exist for the aforementioned scientific , medical , aesthetic or moral reasons . For example , there is a great modern-day interest in the dodo species of bird which was hunted to extinction in Mauritius in the 17 Century . The opinion of many in the modern world today is one of regret at the bird 's extinction and that it should have been protected , but a lack of consideration of the wishes of future generations in the 17 Century has meant that the humans of the 21 Century are denied the ability to decide on the value of this species themselves . Because we place a moral value on the ability of humans to make decisions -LRB- as we consider it to be a good thing when we ourselves have this ability -RRB- we should recognise that the possibly differing opinions of future generations should constrain our choices somewhat , and we should protect endangered species so that future generations can decide for themselves regarding their value . 	Humanity owes a moral responsibility to future generations
This money would be more symbolic and that symbolism could be the means for beginning the restoration of the fortunes of a minority that has been long oppressed.This isnt about victimhood or singling out a particular minority for special charitable treatment this is money owed , and money people are entitled to . It is not the causing of a division , but rather the healing of a still-open wound . That supposed symbol of freedom and liberty , the US Capitol building was constructed by slaves . African-Americans can not truly feel part of the free society and democracy in which they live until this wrong is publicly admitted and righted . 	Reparation would be a symbolic apology .
Slaves were entitled to compensation and , being deceased , that money should go to their descendants . This principle does n't cease to be true over time truth and justice dont have sell-by dates . The most important thing to establish is the principle of reparation being right . The how is less important . A reasonable approach would be to say that individuals would have to establish a direct link between themselves and a slave -LRB- many can -RRB- . The fact that doing so will be difficult does not mean that it should not happen . Dwelling on the practical difficulties is no real opposition . Practicalities come second : the focus should be on righting this wrong . 	Slaves were forced to work without pay , so their descendants are owed for their labour .
There is a perfectly reasonable case that the state should pay . The wealth now enjoyed by the USA , for example , stems in part from the use of slaves . Its development would n't have been as fast , its GDP would not be so high , it would not have so much money if it were n't for slaves . Some of it should be paid back . If links can be established to corporations , then those corporations should pay . Pointing to the fact that individuals alive today did n't keep slaves is simplistic - they have benefited from living in an enviromnent whose wealth was built on the backs of slaves . 	Nations are still benefiting from Slavery .
The wealth gap is strongly correlated to crime . In order to make one 's own society safer one ought to give generously to charities that support the poor . In the United States in 2008 , 37 % of black high-school dropouts were incarcerated ; if more money was given to charities that support the poor sectors of society that are the most likely to drop-out , crime rates would inevitably come down . For example , of those black students who did make it to college , only 2 % were incarcerated . The pattern is uniform across all races in the United States , the longer they stay in school , and therefore the more chance they have of finding a job , the less chance of ending up in prison . The wealthy should also consider the possibility that a wealthy individual can fall on hard times and need charity in the future . By behaving charitably and fostering a culture of generosity one ensures that the community will assist them in the future . Reducing inequality therefore both makes society safer and makes it more likely to help those at the very bottom . 	Reducing inequality will reduce crime and make society safer .
While we live in a materialist culture where it is often felt necessary to gather more and more stuff , often disposing of other items as we go along it is also very easy to give . There are thousands of charities that allow us to give to the needy either in terms of giving cash or our time and skills . These charities do work in all sorts of activities , from debate education like the international debate education association , to feeding the starving like Oxfam . In many cases we can give in local stores as well as online or by post . Those in the rich world also have lots of disposable income that they can give away . Toby Ord , a university researcher shows that it is possible to give away a lot to charity while not on an income that is particularly large by the standards of the developed world . He gives away over a third of his income of 25000 and still has plenty to live on . Ord believes that everyone in the rich world should give away a tenth of their earnings . Geoghegan , 2010 . 	It is easy to give .
Many people gain from giving to charity . It improves self-esteem , alleviates guilt , and ensures religious or cultural guidelines that are important to you are met . They also contribute towards tax breaks . Acting in such an ethical manner therefore has numerous effects on other aspects of life . Microsoft founder Bill Gates , who has given billions to his own charities , describes giving his money back as making him feel ` very fortunate ' and ` thrilled ' . Some philosophers argue that an ethical life is a virtuous life . A virtue is any activity that encourages human flourishing . A virtue tends to be the midpoint of two vices . For example , it would be wrong to be lazy but it would also be wrong to work so hard that one never has time for one 's family . Being hardworking is the midpoint of these two extremes and also serves to provide the individual with a sense of fulfilment and the positive consequences that come about as a result of hard work . 	Charitable people feel better about themselves .
The philosopher Peter Singer proposes what has been called the Greater Moral Evil Rule : If we can prevent something bad without sacrificing anything of comparable significance , we ought to do it . From this first premise Singer argues that absolute poverty is bad and that there is some absolute poverty we can prevent without sacrificing anything of comparable significance . Therefore , we ought to prevent some absolute poverty . This argument can be modified to cover a large variety of things which one might call ` charity ' . Singer derives the greater moral evil rule by use of the drowning child analogy . If one walked past a child drowning in a shallow pond it would surely be unethical to walk past that child and allow it to drown simply because you did n't want to be ten minutes late for an appointment or wet your trousers bottoms . In the same way , if one could give up a tiny percentage of one 's income to provide a meal for a child who would otherwise starve to death then surely it would be unethical to allow that child to die . Surely then not giving aid is tantamount to murder . 	If we can afford to , we should give money to charity , otherwise we are responsible for the poor 's plight .
In the military , young men acquire many skills for everyday life . These include personality traits like self-discipline , teamwork and leadership and practical skills like first aid , driving an ambulance , extra practice for surgeons , swimming , etc . that might be beneficial either to their own careers or , in cases of emergency , to everyone as these skills are transferable . As William James once wrote about national service , ` our gilded youths would be drafted off to get the childishness knocked out of them , and to come back into society with healthier sympathies and soberer ideas ' . -LSB- 1 -RSB- Furthermore it acts as a test of manhood . As Ann Marlowe points out , ` if we showed all of our young people a closer look at danger , if we forced them into some form of self-testing , perhaps we would not only give them a sense of greater purpose , but also strip the false glamour from depictions of cruelty and destructruction . -LSB- 2 -RSB- -LSB- 1 -RSB- -LSB- 2 -RSB- 	Conscription into the armed services benefits the young men and women drafted .
We accept the need for national service in wartime and this is just an extension of this . Conscription during peacetime would mean that the country was prepared for emergencies when they happened , rather than having to prepare after the fact . As US Congressman Charles Rangel has argued , the fairest way of ensuring that all share in the sacrifice is a military draft -LRB- Poutvaara & Wagener , 2006 , p. 3 -RRB- . -LSB- 1 -RSB- It would ensure that at the time of a military conflict the state has enough trained troops , therefore the security of that state is enhanced - a benefit every citizen can enjoy . The philosopher John Rawls believed similarly , arguing conscription is permissible only if it is demanded for the defence of liberty itself -LRB- Carter , 1998 , p. 79 -RRB- . -LSB- 2 -RSB- Furthermore , it also acts as a potential deterrent against aggressive action , for the existence of a large pool of well-trained reserves is in principle little different to the existence of a large , well-trained standing army . The cause of peace is well-served by a policy of conscription . -LSB- 1 -RSB- Poutvaara , P. , & Wagener , A . -LRB- 2006 , May -RRB- . Retrieved June 1 , 2011 , from Helsinki Center of Economic Research : -LSB- 2 -RSB- Carter , A . -LRB- 1998 -RRB- . Liberalism and the Obligation to Military Service . , 68-81 . 	Conscription is necessary as a precaution against future aggression .
Conscription permits the state to raise , both cheaply and quickly , a large , able-bodied force ready for combat . States with conscription-based armed services are able to prepare for combat without the expense of housing a large volunteer force . Furthermore , in the context of surprise attacks , conscription permits the instantaneous raising of a large , competent army . A volunteer force faced with a sudden and extreme threat would not be able to raise , equip and prepare a sufficiently-powerful force within a similar time . In 1967 , when faced with the threat of an Arab alliance led by General Nasser , Israel was reliant on the swift mobilization of its conscripts in order to first deter and then repel the Arab forces . A volunteer force would likely have been slower to respond , less able to deter and incapable of repelling . Without conscription , a state leaves itself at the mercy of an enemy able to conceal its intentions and strike rapidly . 	Conscription is the most effective means of raising and bolstering an army in wartime .
National service helps to promote patriotism and a sense of nationhood . In many countries national pride is at an all-time low in the wake of recent the financial crash and resulting austerity budgets and this gives us the chance to rally around a shared cause , no matter what race or culture you come from . The individual has a duty to put something back into society and national service allows this . Whether it be through protecting the country or helping with social or environmental projects , this encourages the idea of working as a community instead of merely for selfish ends . Even when not in active service , the mere knowledge that one is trained and , at a moment 's notice , deployable to the front line in the protection of one 's society and way of life promotes a wonderful togetherness . An example of this is the Irish in World War I . Although they were only recruited as volunteers even nationalists signed up . A Nationalist MP John Redmond described it as ' a distinctively Irish army , composed of Irishmen , led by Irishmen and trained at home in Ireland ' ` the achievements of that Irish army have covered Ireland with glory before the world ' , this was in stark contrast to the disillusionment and risings nationalists back in Ireland were participating in . -LSB- 1 -RSB- A volunteer army , often separated from society at large and operating as a ` state within a state ' , does not serve such purposes so easily . -LSB- 1 -RSB- 	Conscription serves to promote patriotism and a sense of belonging .
One of the last bastions of discrimination against gays lies in the fact that gay couples in many countries are at present not allowed to marry . Such discrimination should be eradicated by permitting gay couples to marry as a means of professing their love to each other . The contemporary views of society ought to change with the times ; as recently as 1967 , blacks and whites in some Americans could not marry , no-one would defend such a law now . Gay marriage is possibly , as Theodore Olson , a former Bush administration Republican suggests , the last major civil-rights milestone yet to be surpassed . To permit heterosexual couples to profess their love through the bonds of marriage , but deny that same right to homosexual couples ultimately devalues their love , a love that is no weaker or less valid than that of straight couples . As New York State Senator Mark Grisanti admitted when voting in favour of a 2011 bill , I can not deny a personthe same rights that I have with my wife . It is clearly discriminatory and reflects an out-dated view of homosexuality . 1 . The Economist , 1996 2 . Olson , 2010 3 . Black , 2011 	It is discriminatory to refuse gay couples the right to marry
The state is charged with the responsibility of both providing registrars to conduct marriage ceremonies and authenticating marriages certificates . If gay marriage was to be legalized , all registrars could be thereafter forced , by the state and their commitment to the law , to legally bind themselves to avoid discriminating between homosexual and heterosexual couples who ask for their service . All registrars who refused to marry homosexual couples could be fired . There could be no difference in the process or the paperwork required for either a heterosexual or homosexual marriage . The dismissal of discriminating registrants would have a legal precedent in the charges brought upon hotel owners who refused gay couples and adoption agencies who refused to deal with gay couples . 	State registrars conducting marriage ceremonies could not discriminate between homosexual and heterosexual couples
It is inaccurate to perceive marriage merely as an institution for child-raising purposes . There are many married couples in society today who do not have children of their own , often by choice , and infertile couples , who can not conceive children , are still permitted to marry.They marry because marriage symbolizes a long-term commitment to one another , not a pledge to reproduce for the state or humanity as a whole . In any case , gay couples may adopt children in countries where they are permitted to do so , revealing society 's view at large that homosexual couples can readily act as capable parents and provide loving home environments . Furthermore , the advance of medical science has also enabled same-sex couples to have children of their own through surrogate mothers and sperm donors . It can no longer be said that homosexual couples should not be granted the right to marriage because , either , they can not have children , or that they can not raise children adequately . Both claims are evidently false . 	Marriage is about more than procreation , therefore gay couples should not be denied the right to marry due to their biology .
Gay marriage has clear and tangible positive effects on societies where it is permitted . There are now ten countries that allow gay marriage , with no obvious or noticeable detriment to society at large . As Chris Ott reports from Massachusetts , one of few US states to grant gay marriage rights , predictably , the sky hasnt fallenensuring equality doesnt mean theres less to go around for everyone else . Further to that , gay marriage encourages gay adoption , granting a home and a loving environment for an increasing number of orphaned or unwanted children worldwide . The evidence also suggests that gay parenting is at least as favourable as those in heterosexual families , eroding fears that the adopted children will be worse with gay parents . The economist Thomas Kostigen also argues gay marriage is a boost for the economy , weddings create revenue of all sortseven if a marriage doesnt work out that helps the economy too . Divorces cost money . Finally , and most simply , societies benefit from the net utility of their citizens , to allow and even encourage gay marriage ensures that those gay citizens wishing to celebrate their love are able to do so , in an environment conducive to their mutual happiness . 1 . Ott , -LRB- 2005 -RRB- 2 . Short , Riggs , Perlesz , Brown , & Kane , -LRB- 2007 -RRB- , p. 25 3 . Kostigen , -LRB- 2009 -RRB- 	Gay marriage is good for society
To allow gay couples to marry would enable them to take advantage of the various fiscal benefits accorded to married couples in general . As Scott Bidstrup argues , a gay couple together for 40 years can still be compelled by law to testify or provide evidence against one another , something married spouses can not be forced to do . Such antiquated laws take the discriminatory view that the love between homosexuals is artificial and extend it to encompass legal benefits . As Justice Anthony Kennedy noted in a Supreme Court ruling , ` homosexuals are forbidden the safeguards that others enjoy or may seek without constraint ' . A gay couple 's inability to reproduce should not prevent them from obtaining the benefits of marriage , benefits granted not to encourage or reward child birth but to recognize the bond between two loved ones . 	Gay couples should be able to take advantage of the fiscal and legal benefits of marriage
Especially in cases of nationalist conflict or terrorist attacks , it may be extremely difficult to have a non-biased jury . In Northern Island , for example , jurors may sympathize with violent offenders and acquit them despite a preponderance of evidence . Similarly , it can be a struggle to appoint non-biased juries for terrorism trials post 9/11 . In 2003 , the `` Lackwana Six '' were accused of aiding a foreign terrorist organization . The magistrate noted that `` Understandably , the infamous , dastardly and tragic deeds and events of September 11 , 2001 have caused a maelstrom of human emotions to ... create a human reservoir of strong emotional feelings such as fear , anxiety and hatred as well as a feeling of paranoia ... These are strong emotions of a negative nature which , if not appropriately checked , cause the ability of one to properly reason to ... be blinded . '' Questions about jury impartiality have been raised in multiple similar cases , even leading some defendants to claim that they pled guilty out of resignation that the jury would inevitably be biased and refuse to acquit . The implication is that in some trials , juries may be unable to make impartial decisions , thus making the trial unfair . The only way for justice to be done , in such cases , is to allow a judge to decide the verdict . Laura K. Donohue , `` Terrorism and Trial by Jury : The Vices and Virtues of British and American Criminal Law '' 	It may be necessary to limit trial by jury in cases where it is impossible to recruit an impartial jury .
There are three reasons why this is the case . First , terrorist groups may threaten jury members -LRB- see Argument 2 for more detail -RRB- . Second , terrorism may politicize the jury -LRB- see Argument 3 for more detail -RRB- . Third , the state may be limited in what information it can provide if jurors are present . The government may be unable or unwilling to present classified information for fear of intelligence leaks ; for example if it does not want to reveal intelligence methods and sources to the public . This reluctance may make it very difficult to prosecute terrorists . The implication is that the unique national security issues terrorism trials pose may make juries untenable if we ever want to convict terrorists of serious crimes . Laura K. Donohue , `` Terrorism and Trial by Jury : The Vices and Virtues of British and American Criminal Law '' 	It may be necessary to limit trial by jury in terrorism cases , or other cases surrounding large national security issues .
It is very difficult to carry out trial by jury if people involved in the case continuously attempt to tamper with the jury , or unduly influence its decision . For example , the UK home office has stated that trying to protect jurors from tampering can be extremely disruptive to the jurors themselves , who may in extreme cases need police protection 24 hours a day . Cases involving international terrorism , drug smuggling or organized crime are the most likely to present such problems . In the infamous trial of Italian anarchists Vanzetti and Sacco , one of the jurors had a bomb thrown at his house , despite a huge number of security measures taken by the Massachusetts government . Another example is the 2008 case of a large armed robbery at Heathrow . After three mistrials , which cost 22m and the last of which collapsed after a serious attempt at jury tampering , it was decided that the case would be tried by a judge alone . If eliminating the jury is the only way to ensure that a -RRB- a trial occurs and b -RRB- jurors are safe , particularly when it is the defendants ' fault that a fair trial by jury is untenable , it may be necessary to do so . 1 . Alan Travis , `` New Threat to Trial by Jury '' 2 . Laura K. Donohue , Terrorism and Trial by Jury : The Vices and Virtues of British and American Criminal Law 3 . Clive Coleman , Debating non-jury criminal trial 	It may be necessary to limit trial by jury in cases where there is a real danger of jury tampering or intimidation .
Juries are not technically trained in evaluating evidence . Additionally , judges are trained to recognize and suppress their own prejudices , evaluate information given to them , recognize prosecutorial strategy etc . , better allowing them to make objective decisions . Furthermore , some studies suggest that juries actually work against the innocent ; a 1979 study found that `` more than 5 per cent of defendants found guilty by juries were considered by professionals to have been convicted in questionable circumstances . '' This is hardly surprising given that jurors are ordinary citizens who are forced to sit through what are often dull and protracted trials , and who may have little interest in actually listening to what is being said -LRB- Joanne Frail , a juror convicted for contempt of court stated that she ` drew more than she wrote -LSB- during the trial -RSB- ' -RRB- . Perhaps we should trust in the expertise of screened and trained justices instead . Sir Louis Blum Cooper QC , `` A Judge Can Do the Work of 12 Amateurs , and Better Baldwin and McConville , `` Jury Trials '' BBC , `` Juror Admits Contempt of Court Over Facebook Case '' 	Judges are better at delivering justice than juries are .
Juries are very expensive and time consuming , and courts may not be capable of using them for all trials . Indeed , in both the UK and the United States , minor or petty offences can be tried without jury -LRB- such offenses are defined differently in different places ; in the US petty offences are those carrying less than 6 months prison time or a fine of $ 5000 -RRB- That is because in densely populated areas , the courts are simply not capable of handling all trials with juries . But even beyond the limitations already in place , there may be more small-scale trials which could function without juries , and free up resources . According to British government crime advisor Louise Casey , if all of the either-or cases -LRB- cases dealing with minor offences which can be tried in either a crown or a magistrates court -RRB- were shifted entirely to the latter , Britain would save 30m in the costs of setting up juries . Such money could be used to help out victims of serious crimes , or otherwise improve the justice system . For example , if more time and money were freed up in the United States , the courts might not need to pressure so many defendants into plea bargaining , or pleading guilty without a trial in exchange for less harsh sentencing or the dropping of other charges -LRB- in 1996 , about two thirds of American criminal case dispositions involved guilty pleas -RRB- . That would allow more trials to take place , and more justice to be done . 1 . http : //legal-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/Petty+Offense -RRB- 2 . Robert P. Connolly , `` The Petty Offence Exception and Right to a Jury Trial '' 3 . Peter Wozniak , `` Trial by Jury Faces the Axe for Petty Crimes '' 4 . 	Having trial by jury for people accused of very small offences is a waste of resources .
In the event of two different perceptions of what constitutes harm , there is a tendency for that of the larger group to be seen as normative and , therefore , correct . This is shown to be the case in the example given here but also in other instances from the Salem witch trials to the fatwa on Salman Rushdie ; the fact that there was an authorising body in the shape of an orthodox religious body the allegation itself acquires the force of that orthodoxy . It is rare for minority beliefs to have much success and almost unknown for secularists to do so . Several cases in North America brought in an effort to protect the religious rights of Wiccans , for example , yielded little as they lacked the force of religious orthodoxy . In states where there is either great homogeneity of belief or there is a theological element in the courts or political system , this has tended to be even more the case . This is particularly true of states that identify themselves officially with one religion , and especially so in the case of Islamic states . 	Inevitably protects entrenched interest groups ( Church in Crucible , Muslims in Pakistan )
Blasphemy , by its nature , is all in the eye of the beholder . It is impossible , in most cases , to determine whether there was intent on the part of the accused and as a result it is difficult to codify in legislation . Equally , unless the law takes a particular theological position , one persons blasphemous slur is anothers sacred profession . It relies on the predicate that the person alleging blasphemy was offended or felt their faith was under attack . Of course these offences are very real and may at times be possible to codify but they can not be applied universally because the perceptions they necessitate are not universal . As a result , as in the case given above , allegation and proof must be deemed to be the same thing - to be accused is to be found guilty . Acts of blasphemy can not rest on intuited human norms I do not wish to be harmed in this way therefore you do not wish it either because those involved have a different understanding of the harm . In the light of this there may be many remedies for blasphemy but legislation in general and criminal sanctions in particular can not be appropriate . 	Based on allegation rather than proof ( cf . Sorcery , witchcraft , etc . )
In the laws that come the closest in framework to blasphemy libel , slander defamation and a range of incitement laws there is a requirement to prove harm . This level of proof is not set at the level of being offended or believing that a problem may ensue , and certainly not at the level of just disagreeing with a statement . If there is no proof of harm then the principle of free speech stands , usually termed as a justifiable comment in defamation defences . It is entirely possible to respect the rights of others to hold an opinion and , as in this case , disagree with that opinion . For anything other than that as the only logical basis for discussing blasphemy , it would be necessary to demonstrate a causal link to actual or probable harm usually this proof requires either financial or physical harm to be involved . In the case of blasphemy , such harm can not be demonstrated . There is also an interesting point of whether God can be said to have been harmed and whether it is possible for a third party , other than the state , to act as a result of harm having been caused to another . As a result , since harm can not be proven and neither , in most cases , as we have seen in the previous argument , can intent be proven , it is difficult to see how blasphemy is anything other than free speech . It is far easier for other social groups sexual and political minorities , people of disabilities and others to prove both harm and intent of statements and actions but lack the legal protection given to religious organisations through blasphemy laws . . 	People have a right to blaspheme
When confronted with chronic pain or with diseases that steadily remove our sense of self or at least the self of whom we are aware death has proven to be a sensible option taken by sensible people . It is a simple fact that we all die , our objections to it tend to be based on the idea that it can happen at the hands of others or at a time , or in a manner , not of our choosing . Neither of these issues arise with either assisted suicide or voluntary euthanasia . Proposition has no difficulty at all with the suggestion that both procedures should be regulated and take place in safe , medically supported , environments . However , if an individual accepts that death is their preferred option in such a scenario , it is difficult to comprehend of reasons why they should not be allowed to proceed . Our social rejection of murder does not , ultimately relate to death itself but to the denial of choice . With murder someone is denying that person all their future potential so denying their freedom of choice , and this remains the case even if the murder was completely painless . Here , reason tells us , the virtuous act is death and the reservation of that choice . The determining element of humanity is that we are rational beings ; a blanket ban legal and social on choosing the time and manner of our deaths reflects our primeval fear of a death that comes , unwanted , in the dark of the night , not the mature judgement of modern , thinking -LRB- and long-lived -RRB- humans . 	Suicide is a rational choice in many situations .
Ultimately , the decision to die is a personal one , it may affect others but , clearly it has the greatest impact on the person who decides to die . Clearly those who remain behind will have to deal with the consequences of that death and the end of their relationship with that person but , one would hope , that would be the case if she had died of natural causes at a later date . Furthermore the experience of watching someone die can by as traumatic , or more so , for the carer or loved one than it is for the individual concerned . What it clearly is not , is an issue for legislators and other strangers who have no connection to the person involved . There are deeply personal issues such as love , death , sex , and reproduction where we accept the state may have a role in the formal sense of preventing their abuse but otherwise should not have an opinion either way . With the right to die the state has maintained not only an opinion but a criminal sanction . This is a clear example of where the role of the state is to respect the individual and step back ; legislation is far too cumbersome a tool with be used in circumstances as varied and complex as these . Dealing with the loss of a loved one , particularly in a situation such as assisted suicide , is painful and traumatic enough for all concerned without adding to that the additional stress of a threat of criminal sanction . 	The decision to die is a deeply personal one - it is no business of the state .
We now live longer than at any time in the 100,000 years or so of human evolution and longer than the other primates . In many nations we have successfully increased the quantity of life without improving the quality . More to the point , too little thought has been given to the quality of our deaths . Let us consider the example of the cancer patient who opts not to put herself through the agony and uncertainty of chemotherapy . In such a circumstance , we accept that a person may accept the certainty of death with grace and reason rather than chasing after a slim probability of living longer but in pain . All proposition is arguing is that this approach can also apply to other conditions , which may not be terminal in the strict sense of the world but certainly lead to the death of that person in any meaningful sense . The application of medical science to extend a life , long after life is worth living or would be possible to live without these interventions can not be considered a moral good for its own sake . Many find that they are facing the prospect of living out the rest of their days in physical pain or are losing their memory . As a result , some may see going out at the top of their game as the better , and more natural , option . 	Medical science allows us to control death , suicide and euthanasia are sensible corollaries to that .
The Palestinian people since 1967 have demonstrated through resistance to Israeli occupation their desire for an independent state of their own . -LRB- 7 -RRB- An undivided Jerusalem forces the Palestinians living in East Jerusalem to live under the control of a state they do not wish to be a part of , a violation of their right to self-determination under international law . The 1993 Vienna Declaration , which reaffirmed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Charter -LRB- and so sets the standard in current international law -RRB- , unequivocally gives all peoples the right to self-determination : All people have the right to self-determination . Owing to this right they freely establish their political status and freely provide their economic , social and cultural development ... World Conference on Human Rights considers refusal of the right to self-determination as a violation of human rights and emphasizes the necessity of effective realization of this right . -LRB- 12 -RRB- Because Israel captured East Jerusalem during the 1967 war , it is considered occupied territory under international law , and it is illegal for Israel to annex it . -LRB- 7 -RRB- This is why most countries do not recognise Israeli sovereignty over East Jerusalem and in fact keep their diplomatic missions in Tel-Aviv today and do not consider Jerusalem the official capital of Israel . -LRB- 15 -RRB- The fact that Arab states initiated the 1967 war does not justify Israel responding by annexing Palestinian territory or holding on to East Jerusalem , and so international law supports the return of East Jerusalem to the Palestinians . -LRB- 8 -RRB- 	International law supports dividing Jerusalem
The only sustainable solution is to divide and then share Jerusalem , and the Haram-Temple Mount . No final deal will be possible if one side or the other is not willing to embrace this . Sharing Jerusalem would involve acknowledging and respecting each others claims which would extend to the other problems preventing agreement . -LRB- 1 -RRB- Sharing is the only solution that leads to peace , as the Palestinians in East Jerusalem will not tolerate permanent Israeli governance . Peace will always be a trade-off ; Israel needs security while the Palestinians need territory and a viable capital city which they have dreamed of having in East Jerusalem for decades . -LRB- 9 -RRB- -LRB- 5 -RRB- In any peace deal Israel will have to accept that their security forces can not be in control of Muslim areas . The Palestinians wont trust them as a result of decades where they have not been fair to Palestinians and have been abusive rather than protective . -LRB- 2 -RRB- All this means that Israeli rule in East Jerusalem can never be legitimate in the eyes of the Palestinians , and so long term peace can never emerge as long as this rule continues . French President Nicholas Sarkozy said in 2008 : `` There can not be peace without recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of two states and the guarantee of free access to the holy places for all religions . '' -LRB- 3 -RRB- There has actually been recent recognition of this fact on both the Israeli and Palestinian sides . Hady Amr , Director of Brookings Doha Center , wrote in 2007 : `` At a recent closed-door gathering of former Israeli and Palestinian negotiators hosted at the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at the Brookings Institution ... had come to realize just how painful the issue of Jerusalem was for both sides , that neither side could feel whole without Jerusalem , and that separation arrangements were unworkable when emotions flared over a few feet of Jerusalem stone . Although it took a decade , the Israelis realized that they could not be secure from Palestinian rancor if they deprived Muslim and Christian Palestinians of sovereignty over the Muslim Noble Sanctuary and the holy Christian churches . The Palestinian negotiators also acknowledged the corollary Israeli need for sovereignty over not only the Wailing Wall , but also the Jewish Temple Mount . '' -LRB- 4 -RRB- A poll in 2000 showed some 40 percent of Israelis were ready to give up Arab East Jerusalem without even knowing what they would get in return . -LRB- 1 -RRB- While it is an unlikely solution most of the more likely methods have already been tried so new more unconventional solutions need to be tried . The division of Jerusalem could be such a solution that would kick start the rest of the peace process . The benefits of ending the conflict would be immense . -LRB- 4 -RRB- 	Sharing Jerusalem is necessary for peace
The Palestinians have as valid a claim to Jerusalem as the capitol of their state as the Israelis has a claim to Jerusalem as the capitol of their state . At the end of 2008 , the population of East Jerusalem was 57 % Muslim -LRB- Palestinian -RRB- and only 43 % Jewish , sowing a clear and workable Palestinian majority in East Jerusalem . -LRB- 10 -RRB- Both sides have important religious sites in the city . The dome of the Rock is integral to Islam to the prophet Muhammads night journey to the temple making it Islams third holiest place after only Mecca and Medina . It is equally important for Jews to have access to the Western Wall . -LRB- 1 -RRB- For the Palestinians Israel has made its claim over the whole of Jerusalem more illegitimate by misgoverning the East of Jerusalem . For example , because there are no Arabs on the committee that chooses street names in Jerusalem in the telephone book maps of Arab neighbourhoods are blank , like unexplored parts of the Amazon in the 19th century . As a result mail is seldom delivered there , and having Arabs ' become perceived to be invisible , non-existent or else branded as terrorists . -LRB- 5 -RRB- Throughout the Israeli occupation the demographic balance has served as the main consideration in Israeli decision making for both local and central government . This has been a deliberate attempt to forstall any attempt by the Palestinians to claim that they have an equal right to Jerusalem . Israeli policies have been directed to mainly serve spatial/demographic domination of `` Jewish Jerusalem . '' There was no attempt to `` integrate '' the Palestinian neighborhoods ' functions with West Jerusalem or the settlements built in Palestinian areas . On the contrary , the policy has been to separate and isolate them . East Jerusalem serves naturally as a metropolitan center of the entire West Bank , until the Oslo agreement in September 1993 , some autonomy of Palestinian Jerusalemites was allowed especially in educational , sport , health , cultural , religious institutions and community based organizations . There has however been a movement from `` United Jerusalem '' to `` Jewish Jerusalem . '' From 2000 the Palestinian demographic threat , became the reason for `` getting rid '' of Palestinian Jerusalemites after Israel had accomplished its spacio-political goals for a `` Jewish Jerusalem . '' Israel of today is in the process of replacing the slogan of `` United Jerusalem '' with great `` Jewish Jerusalem '' with the Old City as its core . As a result of the Israeli policy , Palestinian neighborhoods -LRB- including the available land for future development -RRB- consist of only 17 percent of the entire East Jerusalem area and 7 percent of total municipal Jerusalem . Israel restricted the Palestinian construction and economic development , which led to the emigration of the Palestinians from the city to new areas developed as suburbs of the city . This territorial/demographic domination and restriction on Palestinian development affected East Jerusalem by deteriorating its functionality in disconnecting it from its hinterland and West Bank areas . -LRB- 14 -RRB- Israeli officials have also not been fair or protective of Palestinians , repeatedly being highly abusive , and Israeli security forces have been accepting of abusive Israeli civilian treatment of Palestinians . -LRB- 2 -RRB- Moreover , Jerusalem can be shared , and thus divided in practical terms but not `` divided '' per se . It has been a Palestinian position that Jerusalem can `` remain the capital of Israel '' and can `` remain undivided '' . This is a as long as that does not preclude the Palestinians from also having their capital in a `` shared '' city . -LRB- 11 -RRB- What matters is that it is recognised that the Palestinians have as valid a claim to their part of Jerusalem as the Israelis do to their part , and as a consequence Jerusalem should be divided in such a way as to give the Palestinians control over their area as the capitol of their new state . 	Palestine has as valid a claim to Jerusalem as Israel does :
The decline of conflicts and mercenary freedom on the African continent has meant less work for mercenaries . The Congo conflict of the 1960s , is seen as the first mercenary age . Hired guns fought on all sides of the conflict and enjoyed the freedom to act at their discretion . The 1976 execution of mercenaries in Angola was seen as a symbolic ending of this age . That said , mercenaries were still prevalent into the 1990s and early 2000s . Since the peak of the 1990s , however , there has been a noticeable decrease in the number of conflicts in Africa from 27 civil wars and 9 interstate wars to 5 major civil wars and no interstate wars . As wars and civil unrest are an obvious source of employment for mercenaries ; this decrease in conflict leaves them with fewer opportunities . The African Unions promise to end war on the continent by 2020 also puts the future prospects of mercenaries in to question . 8 -RRB- Keane , F . There will be work for mercenaries in Africa until democracy replaces dictatorships 2004 9 -RRB- The World Bank World Development Report 2011 pg .52 10 -RRB- Wikipedia List of ongoing armed conflicts 	Decreased Conflict and the end of the mercenary age
Private Military Companies -LRB- PMCs -RRB- are independent , registered , corporate actors who have risen in prominence and replaced mercenaries in their security function . PMCs are different to mercenaries in the sense that mercenaries will fight for the highest bidder . PMCs on the other hand will only work for legitimate governments and intergovernmental organisations such as the UN . Their main roles include ; support services , logical support , humanitarian support and the upholding of law and order and defensive military action . PMC activity has seen corporations operating on behalf of the Somalian government training coast guards to deal with the threat of piracy which peaked in 20093 . The legal status of PMCs , compared with mercenaries , makes them a preferable choice for the aforementioned tasks reducing the prominence of illegal hired guns . 1 -RRB- Jefferies , I . Private Military Companies - A Positive Role to Play in Todays International System , 2002 Pg .106 2 -RRB- Jefferies , I . Private Military Companies - A Positive Role to Play in Todays International System , 2002 Pg .107 3 -RRB- Stupart , J. Somalias PMCs : Whats the Big Deal ? , 2012 	Private corporations have replaced mercenaries
Democracies should support moderate groups seeking to oust dictators because the result will hopefully be a moderate , democratic state . This would then be a reliable partner for the future that would be more willing to help engage and resolve the region 's problems . But this is not all about being high minded and wanting to promote democracy in the Middle East , arms need to be provided in order to ensure future influence in Syria . We already know that there are jihadis operating in Syria so it is plain that this is a conflict that will eventually have wider implications for the west . If we want to have influence in Syria after Assad is overthrown then we need to begin helping opposition groups . It is in our interest to build up the moderate groups so as to deny support to the extremists ; once this is over we would be in a much better position if we have grateful friends on the ground rather than groups who are resentful that we provided fine words but no real help . We do n't want to find ourselves having to root out terrorists from the air using UAVs . 	It is in the national interest for democracies to support those seeking to oust dictators
The Assad regime has clearly lost its legitimacy and has precipitated a humanitarian crisis in Syria . The February estimate of 70000 killed is up from an estimate of 60000 only a month before , so clearly the violence is escalating . The conflict is also affecting neighbours ; refugees have flooded into Jordan , Lebanon , and Turkey , and Israel is already believed to have attacked a convoy or research facility involved in chemical and biological weapons development . Clearly the presence of these weapons show how much worse the situation could get if Assad is not overthrown . Not intervening risks the whole region being slowly destabilised and drawn in to the conflict . 	Syria clearly meets the standards for intervention
Syria 's government has been receiving outside support from a variety of sources ; Russia and Iran being the most prominent . Iran has been training the Jaysh al - Shabi , a Syrian government-controlled force modelled on Iran 's Basij militia . Far from just providing weapons , both Iran and Hezbollah from Lebanon have been sending fighters to support the Syrian government . The rebels have received some support for Qatar and Saudi Arabia but not to the extent the Syrian government has . Anyone with an interest in the free Syrian cause should realise that they can not do so simply by sitting on their hands expecting a victory when those doing the fighting are only provided diplomatic support . 	Would balance the support for Syrian government
The best solution would be a ceasefire between the two sides in the Syrian civil war and a negotiated settlement , but it is clear we are long past the point where this approach stood a chance of success . The United Nations peace effort under Kofi Annan failed in the middle of last year and there has been no progress since . Similarly all attempts to bring pressure to bear throughout the security council have failed as a result of Russia supporting Assad 's regime . This leaves the unilateral initiatives to help the rebels . No state wants full intervention as France did in Mali so the only alternative is simply to help the Free Syrian Army . To do so means providing what they need to win the conflict ; primarily arms that can defeat the Syrian army . This need not be considered to be exclusive with diplomacy ; the intervening state should continue to try to find a diplomatic solution just as before the Dayton accords NATO helped the Croats militarily while at the same time looking to diplomacy to provide an overall solution to the conflict . See the debatabase debate . 	Diplomacy is not going anywhere
The Syrian army is one of the biggest armies in the world ; it is nothing like the poorly equipped Libyan army that was beaten by western backed rebels in 2011 . The government has aircraft , and helicopters that are used to bomb the rebels , and heavy Russian built tanks that are impervious to most of the small arms the free Syrian army has . Providing arms would quickly even the odds ; light anti-tank weapons would be effective against Syrian armoured vehicles repeating the success with which Hezbollah employed them when they knocked out sixty Israeli armoured vehicles in 2006 , while man portable air defence systems would quickly make the skies too dangerous for the Syrian airforce so protecting free Syrian controlled areas from the threat of attack from the air . 	The Free Syrian Army is outgunned
Rising youth unemployment can be considered an international timebomb . Young people are the next generation of workers and consumers in the economy . When they are unemployed , the situation can be alarming . This is because of the importance of getting a job early on so as to avoid becoming long term unemployed . The UN Secretary general , Ban Ki-Moon , has called for stronger policies involving young people . The ILO has warned that youth unemployment can lead to apathy towards government and political instability . The lack of experience in work may cause a lost generation . This must be averted , and the EU is one of the best placed to do this . The temporary work scheme would encourage business to change their attitude and hire more young workers . Having to hire young people , even for a short time , would help break negative stereotypes and often the employers would then offer longer term work . This would help to fill the 2million unfilled vacancies that exist in the EU with young people . Youth Business International , Global Youth Unemployment : a ticking timebomb , , 27 March 2013 , Youth Business International , Global Youth Unemployment : a ticking timebomb , , 27 March 2013 , European Commission , Youth Unemployment , , 2013 , 	This policy is necessary to avoid a lost generation
If the government is employing people then it is going to be boosting the economy . Providing a fiscal boost by spending money is one of the most accepted ways of boosting the economy . In this case spending money on temporary workers is good in several ways . First it is a fiscal boost to the economy . The government will be paying the temporary workers . These workers will have more money to spend and will probably mostly spend it rather than saving . This in turn boosts demand for other goods and services so meaning there needs to be more output with the result that some jobs will be made permanent . There is therefore a positive feedback loop . The second way in which this helps the economy is that it is investment . It is investment because the government is paying for young people to gain experience and for companies to be training these temporary workers . The result of this is a more skilled workforce who in the long term will be more productive . There is a final possible benefit . With government paying for workers they are effectively subsidizing firms . Even if they are new trainees the young temporary workers will be providing output for companies at next to no cost . This then makes that firm more competitive against its global competitors . 	This policy is good for EU economies .
The EU member states should rely more on public employment services , which should be focused on finding jobs for young people . With government funding , they can work with the private sector to offer decent temporary jobs to young people . This model is common in the Nordic states and other countries , such as Austria , Germany and Switzerland also have similar programs . Youth unemployment is already far higher than for older people . Less than a third of under 25s who were looking for a job in 2010 found one in 2011 this may be due to ageist discrimination against young people , and employers seeking people with experience . People over 25 are also considered as a high risk group . They have little experience so the employer is taking a risk in employing them . There is also a desire for stability ; those who already have a family are unlikely to want large changes so employers feel they can bet on them for the long term . If the problem is a lack of experience then this proposal solves the problem . Giving younger people a temporary job and the experience that goes with it will help give everyone an equal chance at getting a job , irrespective of age . Therefore , the EU should step in and help provide jobs for younger people . International Labour Office , Youth guarantees : a response to the youth unemployment crisis ? , , 2012 European Commission , Youth employment , , 2013 , 	The EU should guarantee youth a job in order to equal their chances .
Advertising limits the types of programming and stories commercial networks will run as they may fear losing lucrative advertising deals with large corporations . As PSBs do not rely -LRB- solely -RRB- on advertising they are more likely to air programming which is critical towards the practices of large corporations and serve the public interest . For example , In August 2011 , PBS aired Food Inc. , a documentary that lifted the veil on -LRB- the US -RRB- food industryexposing the underbelly thats hidden from the American consumer with the consent of -LRB- the -RRB- governments regulatory agencies . 	PSB are better equipped than private broadcasters to air accurate , objective and impartial information and programming
PSBs create unique content which private broadcasters would be unable to produce as they strive for mass market appeal to satisfy the demands placed upon them by commercial interests looking to purchase advertising . PSBs create more educational and minority output which enriches society rather than just entertaining it . PSBs can concentrate on creating high quality programming across all genres rather than simply producing mediocre populist programming such as low-cost game shows and reality TV . For example it is unlikely that commercial broadcasters would have aired nightly university lectures as the BBC did with its partnership with the Open University . PSBs are usually among the highest investors in the domestic content industries and nurture local creative talent . 	PSBs provide quality and original content that can cater for niche or commercially unattractive market segments
As well as airing programming for minorities which the private broadcasters would not provide , by providing and presenting content in a manner that resonates with the society in which they operate and by offering universal and affordable access to such content -LRB- see definition in the introduction -RRB- PSBs can also help bring people together and thus promote social cohesion . PSBs are able to put people and society first before financial and commercial interests . For example the BBC in its 2005 Building Public Value report states that it aims to serve its audiences not just as consumers , but as members of a wider society , with programmes and services which , while seeking to inform , educate and entertain audiences , also serve wider public purposes . 	PSBs bring nations and people together and are an actively positive force within the mediasphere
The Schengen agreement has opened internal borders within Europe , but externally the opposite is true . Thus , while citizens of the belonging countries enjoy complete freedom of movement , citizens of non-member countries find that it is more difficult to receive entry visas to enter the Schengen area . As the Schengen area continues to expand , it enforces more and more restrictions on countries that lie outside its borders , turning borders that have historically been open into real fortresses and thus significantly affecting the political and economic relations between long-term allies . For example , the eastern borders of East European States that already enjoy some Schengen privileges are hardening in order to be allowed fully into Schengen as the existing members need to agree that they are implementing border controls satisfactorily . The result is that they are cutting their inhabitants off from neighbours such as Ukraine , Belarus and Russia in order to give them better access to western Europe . Former members of Yugoslavia that before Schengen was implemented could travel to all the members of the EC -LRB- such as Macedonia -RRB- have had travel restrictions imposed and this burden has been increasing as more of their neighbours , such as Slovenia , join the zone or make free travel arrangements with it -LRB- such as Serbia and Croatia -RRB- . 	Schengen tightens external borders , creating a wall around Europe .
Since the Schengen Agreement was first designed and implemented the world has moved on and become a much more dangerous place . The war on terror has already brought bombings to a number of European cities , and this changed circumstance makes Schengen a luxury the EU can no longer afford . September 11 has created a preoccupation with the security of the Unions external borders . Even before September 11th 2001 the drawbacks of open borders in terms of crime were obvious - which is why Paris controversially imposed stricter checks against drugs flowing into France from the more relaxed regime in the Netherlands using a broad interpretation of the rules for temporary issues of public order . Since 9/11 there is a pressing need for stricter border controls to catch international terrorists and prevent the movement of dangerous materials which could be used in terror attacks . 	The Schengen Agreement is an anachronism of a safer age .
The Schengen Area , adopted by some countries in Europe but not others , will create a difference of interest which will irrevocably divide the EU over time . The fact that not all the EU members are part of the Schengen agreement means that the EU is divided in two areas : one in which the free movement of people is achieved and one in which it is not . This threatens to create two different ways of approaching the questions of justice and security within the EU : one that is managed through the SIS system and Europol , and one that is managed through the traditional justice and home affairs legislation within the Union framework itself . This could turn out to be a particularly divisive force within a Union that is already faltering having failed to sign a common Constitution and settled for a watered down treaty instead . 	Schengen helps divide Europe as not all members take part .
The borderless nature of the Schengen Area makes it increasingly difficult to track and detain illegal immigrants . It is often easier for illegal immigrants to enter through countries such as Italy or Greece -LRB- and , as is feared when Bulgaria and Romania eventually join , Eastern European countries -RRB- and then continue on to countries like France and Germany . For example , Italian Prime Minister Berlusconi 's decision to grant temporary residence permits to more than 20,000 Tunisian migrants fleeing the violent uprisings in April , was made in the knowledge that many of the migrants would end up travelling to France , the former colonial ruler where many of the migrants have relatives . France accused Italy of abusing the Schengen Agreement . 	The freedom of movement the Schengen area allows increases the difficulties of controlling immigration
As new members are accepted and the Schengen area expands , it becomes more and more difficult to police . For example , once terrorists have gained access to the area , they are free to move within almost the entirety of Europe . The same applies for traffickers of people , drugs and arms . This was the rationale behind the blocking of Romania and Bulgaria from entering the zone at the same time as they entered the EU ; they failed to curb organised crime before their accession and if they were join access routes would be opened to the whole of Europe . This means that all countries are dependent on the security forces of countries monitoring external borders . It is key that Member States with an external EU frontier have a responsibility to ensure that proper checks and effective surveillance are carried out at the EU 's external frontiers . It is vital that checks and controls at the EU 's external frontiers be rigorous enough to stop illegal immigration , drug smuggling and other unlawful activities . Given the different enforcement abilities of different member states , the security of one state is often not protected because of the carelessness of another . Dissolving the Schengen area gives countries responsibility for the protection of their own borders and thus makes Europe safer as a whole . 	As the Schengen area gets bigger , it becomes more difficult to police and this increases the risk of rogue elements being able to move freely between countries
The freedom of sexual expression -LRB- and exploration -RRB- is not only a matter of choice which is fundamental to the individual it is also particularly important to young people as they proceed through the stage of adolescence into young adulthood . Age of consent laws place artificial limits on this freedom . Sex is entirely natural and should be celebrated in the context of loving relationships , not criminalised and put under the prying eye of an authoritarian state . Violence , coercion and exploitation in sexual relationships should still be punished , but not consensual activity . Such restrictions go against the human rights to privacy and of freedom of expression . The concept that young people do not know what they are doing is flawed , because every person who has gone through sexual development has learnt by doing . There is no process of suddenly coming into full knowledge without acting and exploration . Such exploration would be more safely done in an environment that does n't criminalize it . Such criminalization can actaully lead to the very harm that the law ostensibly seeks to avoid , coercion and exploitation , for it is people who are naturally more inclined to coercion and exploitation that will disregard the law anyway . This feeds the lambs to the wolves . 	We should defend childrens freedom of expression .
The idea that young people should not be having sex is a leftover relic from the past : its justifications are anachronistic and have little place in modern times . Age of consent laws were the product of a purity campaign in Britain in the 1800s , when it was believed that sex was a male privilege , that it led to the sexual ruin of young women , that it meant the loss of their virtue , which was a fate worse than death , and that it contributed to womens second class citizenship . In the UK the age of 16 was chosen and set in 1885 , more than 100 years ago , and has remained ever since . Today these ideas would offend both men and women . 	The censorship laws are a relic from the past .
Age of consent laws are in fact dangerous because they drive underground the very people who should be , and are in most need of , receiving contraceptives , advice on safe sex , and access to health and other educational services . This is true both of the statutory rapist as well as the under-16 consenting victim , who may worry about having assisted in the commission of a crime . Both parties then become real victims as they are put at greater risk of contracting STDs or unwanted pregnancies . 	Age of consent laws prevent the most vulnerable receiving contraceptives .
Some people , particularly those from deprived social or economic backgrounds may feel that their government is not helping them or listing to/care about their problems . When this happens to a large group of people , they may feel crime is the only way they can have their frustrations heard . One example of this would be the Brixton riots in 1981 -LRB- See Appendix -RRB- . In some states where government criticism is itself against the law , breaking the law is in fact the only way to have your feeling heard . However , this is of particular importance to those from socially deprived back grounds for three reasons , firstly they are often the ones most ignored by their government and secondly they are the ones who would benefit most if society were to change . Finally , for some people from poor social or economic backgrounds , crime is the only outlet they have to vent their anger or frustration as all other options have been blocked for them . 	People feel crime is the only way to get their frustrations heard .
We are not born with an innate sense of right and wrong , a prior knowledge of what is legal and illegal . We acquire it through education , both at home and at school . The internalization of these social norms is a crucial part of becoming a law-abiding citizen and acquiring the respect toward the law our society demands . Children from poor backgrounds are more likely to be raised in environments where such distinctions are blurred , where they are exposed to negative role models within their family or community . They may also experience very erratic or low-quality schooling , This may be because the schools have inadequate levels of funding or supplies , the classes are more likely to have disruptive children or that better teachers are more sought after and thus go to other schools . As a result , they might become desensitized to crime , or violence as a result of being exposed to it on a regular basis . They might then start to view crime not as against social order but as a part of it and that will make them more likely to break the law themselves . 	We acquire our knowledge of what is right and wrong through education .
In some impoverished families there is simply no possibility of work and in many countries where there is no welfare benefits this means that the family can not afford food , shelter or healthcare . Even in some places where there are benefits , this is often not enough to cover the familys way -LRB- for example healthcare is the number one cause of bankruptcy in the US -RRB- and thus some members of the family may be driven to desperate measures in order to be able to afford provisions . If no other options are open to them this desperation can result in measures such as theft , drug dealing or blackmail -LRB- See appendix -RRB- . Furthermore often extreme poverty is linked to substance abuse , often as a respite from these terrible conditions . This in turn breeds more crime as people have to fund their addictions . However in this case it seems clear that it is the desperation of poverty that causes these people to commit crimes . Many people believe racism , and therefore crimes such as incitement to racial hatred or hate crimes , are more likely to occur in areas of social deprivation . The theory suggests that a mix of poverty , unemployment and segregation causes high tension can cause a scapegoat culture on either , and indeed both , sides . Tamkins , Theresa , Medical bills prompt more than 60 percent of U.S. bankruptcies , CNN Health , 5 June 2009 , 	People who are destitute are more likely to turn to crime in order to satisfy basic living necessities .
Just as an employer has a responsibility to provide a safe working environment for their employees , the IAAF has a duty to provide a safe environment for their athletes . The sports medical team is responsible for preventing illness and injury , clearly something that is caused by harsh training . As do all those who are involved in sports . These athletes only exist in a professional capacity because bodies created the positions for the athletes to exist . If the world wants to pay people to perform and compete for them , then once that offer is made they have a moral duty to ensure that work is safe , since they are culpable in creating that work . Moreover , we give the IAAF power in the promise that by giving up localised power of judgement over sport , they can better protect athletes and creating a fairer sporting environment . Abusive training methods are a huge failure on the part of the IAAF and as such they must use the most powerful disincentive possible to them . Principals and Ethical Guidelines , IAAF , 	The IAAF and the Athletics commission have the highest burden to protect their athletes .
This measure introduces a strong deterrent against those who allow and facilitate abusive training methods . Firstly , it incentivises national athletic and sporting bodies to diligently check the background of coaches before their employment and continue to investigate them throughout the year . It is now in the interest of every single member of national sporting bodies and teams to ensure abuse doesnt continue . In most it is currently in your interest to keep quiet , lest you risk disturbing the national programme or being ostracised by your federation . As a result coaches are far less likely to think these training methods will help them achieve success . Since it could see their athletes banned from the competition and lose their medals it makes using harsh training methods an immense risk to take . It would also mean theyre unlikely to ever get hired again if caught . 	Banning countries with harsh training measures from competing would be a strong deterrent
Athletes dedicate their lives to their sport and becoming the worlds best at what they do . They are willing to put their body and minds through all sorts of punishment to do this . As such , theyre not in a position to judge what is and isnt an acceptable training method . If theyre told that starvation makes them more likely to win gold then their intense desire for Olympic glory often clouds their judgment and ability to make rational choices for themselves . Their coaches are authority figures who assumed to have their best interests in mind , and most athletes also assume their coaches know more than them about how to achieve glory . So , if a gymnastics coach tells her athlete that she needs to starve herself to win gold , the athlete will think themselves a bad athlete if they refuse . This is shown by the long history of drug use in the Olympics where both coaches and athletes know it is wrong to use drugs but still do so in the hope it will bring them gold . Because of this , the IAFF has to make this decision for them . It also means that the chance of whistleblowing is low , since athletes can not rationally consider whether the training methods are acceptable . So it has to set an incredibly punitive deterrent to make sure coaches arent tempted to use a training method they probably wont be caught for . 	Athletes are vulnerable to their coaches
This ban is , admittedly , highly punitive and may be called harsh . It will punish hundreds of athletes and coaches who arent implicated in cases of abuse . Yet , on a balance of harms , the disappointment those people feel cant be compared to the suffering of an athlete who is beaten and starved and conditioned into a mode of thinking where they accept this without putting up a fight . According to Melanie Lang of Metropolitan University harsh and over intensive training removes the element of fun that first attracts so many youngsters to sport . It can inhibit bone growth , cause physical and mental burnout and increase the potential for injury and dropout . And worse the coercion can lead to injury and even death ; American gymnast Christy Henrich became anorexic and as a result died weighing only 3st 5lb while Chinese gymnast Sang Lan was paralysed after being cajoled into attempting a vault . Its more important to ensure all athletes can train in a safe environment free from physical and mental abuse , than it is to safeguard against the disappointment of professional athletes who want to compete . Given that there are major sporting events annually or bi-annually , usually , its not as if those forced to miss out cant compete again soon . 	The suffering of those who are treated to harsh training outweighs banning the team
Smoking rates in Africa are relatively low ; a range of 8 % -27 % with an average of only 18 % of the population smoking -LRB- or , the tobacco epidemic is at an early stage -RRB- . Thats good , but the challenge is to keep it that way and reduce it . A ban on smoking in public places at this stage would stop tobacco gaining the widespread social acceptability that caused it to thrice in the 20 century in the Global North . The solution is to get the solutions in now , not later . Kaloko , Mustapha , ` The Impact of Tobacco Use on Health and Socio-Economic Development in Africa ' , , 2013 , , p. 4 Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation , What we do : Tobacco control strategy overview , , no date , 	Nip the problem in the bud
There are many reasons why oil and gas exploration should not be allowed in the Antarctic . Firstly , proven and probable reserves of oil and gas are still rising faster than global consumption , so there is no economic need to exploit any hypothetical Antarctic sources . Furthermore , the economics of exploiting Antarcticas resources suggest that it would cost far more that current oil reserves . It is estimated by CoolAntarctica.com -LRB- 2008 -RRB- that each barrel of oil from Antarctica would cost USD $ 100 , whereas current reserves of oil cost on average USD $ 77 a barrel . Also , at a practical level , the cost of exploration and production would be completely uneconomic , especially given the hostile climate and the serious iceberg threats to offshore rigs , tankers and pipelines , as well as the very deep continental shelf . The conditions would be even more difficult for more conventional mining onshore where the mining would need to go through the icecap . 	It is impractical to exploit Antarctica 's natural resources
Opening Antarctica to exploitation would create a serious danger of pollution . This would arise both from oil or other spills and other spoilage that could potentially occur while drilling for resources ; the means of transport used to get both workers and machines to Antarctica ; and from the increased human presence . This pollution could then lead to disaster for Antarctica and the world in general , as it contributes to global warming . In Antarctica this may lead to the melting of ice caps , the breaking of ice sheets , which results in loss of habitat and food for creatures such as Penguins and Krill . It is believed that over 13,000 square kilometres of Antarcticas ice has melted in the last 50 years , over the past five years , studies have found that melting Antarctic ice caps contribute at least 15 % to the current global sea level rise of 2mm -LRB- 0.08 in -RRB- a year . Worldwide , the melting ice can lead to rising sea levels , and an increase in global temperature ; In 2001 , the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change predicted the average global sea level would rise by between 11cm -LRB- 4.3 in -RRB- and 77cm -LRB- 30.3 in -RRB- by 2100 . The consequence of this is increased rainfall , increased risk of volcanic eruption , severe risk of flooding -LRB- particularly in areas such as Shanghai , Lagos , Texas and North Carolina -RRB- , problems with farming , increased risk of tropical diseases and an increase in insect life -LRB- New Scientist , Natural Resources Defence Council , Cool Antarctica , SCAR , BBC News -RRB- . 	The potential environmental damage that would be caused by exploitation does not outweigh the benefits it might bring
One of Antarcticas sought after resources are its fish . Antarctica has suffered greatly from overfishing in its past ; fur seals , elephant seals , and the great whales were all hunted to the brink of extinction . Now , as many other oceans have already been overfished , fishermen are once again turning to Antarctic waters , particularly for its Krill . Yet overfishing has dangerous consequences , not just for the fish itself ; overfishing risks collapsing the fragile ocean ecology all together -LRB- National Geographic -RRB- . One example of this is that if we overfish Krill then there is less food for the humpback whales that feed on krill . This could lead to a reduction in the amount of humpback whales that remain alive , and perhaps even an extinction of the species . 	Exploiting Antarctica 's resources would have a disastrous effect on its marine environment
Antarctica is a pristine and unspoilt continent of great scientific value . In particular , it has a critical impact on the world 's environment and ocean systems . Antarctic science has revealed much about the impact of human activity on the natural world . The discovery in 1985 by scientists at British Antarctic Survey -LRB- BAS -RRB- of the hole in the ozone layer above Antarctica revealed the damage done to the Earth 's atmosphere by man-made chemicals . This means that it must be left undisturbed , in order to allow further study of such critical international issues as climate change , ozone depletion , long-range weather forecasting and the operation of marine eco-systems -LRB- crucial to sustainable fishing -RRB- . The very placement of mines that produce emissions on the continent may perhaps themselves affect the scientific readings , only by having Antarctica completely undisturbed can we guarantee the level of accuracy we now have . 	Antarctica should be left undisturbed for scientific research
Past discrimination lingers on in society through subtle prejudice that must be righted . Past discrimination against particular groups lingers today through the perception of those groups and how they perceive themselves . By using affirmative action , a demonstration effect is created where individuals are previously discriminated groups prove to society and other members of their racial or gender group that they are capable of gaining power and functioning in the same positions of power , responsibility and success as those of other groups in society . This challenges societys perception of these groups as the poor people in society and proves to them that the individuals of this race/gender are equally capable and deserving members of society and can and should function in the same positions of society as them . 	Affirmative action reduces social prejudice
Affirmative action evens the playing field for those who have suffered past discrimination . Discrimination in the past not only leaves a feeling of rejection by ones community , but also a legacy of disadvantage and perpetual poverty . Discrimination is not only psychologically damaging , but tangibly . The denial of opportunities for education and employment in the past has left families in situations where they are stuck in a poverty trap and can not afford to achieve the basic opportunities that others can as they are stuck in a cycle of poverty . A good example of this can be seen in the example of Brazil , where poverty is much more wide-spread in African communities who were previously used as slaves . There is no equality of opportunity in cases of past discrimination . Affirmative action helps level the playing field for selection by assisting those who are held back from a continual historical denial of opportunity and providing them the equality of opportunity everyone deserves . 	Affirmative action removes the cyclical disadvantages of discrimination
Society has a moral obligation to right its wrongs and compensate those they have treated unjustly . Discrimination , whether overt or convert , is an unacceptable practice that arbitrarily disadvantages certain people on grounds that they have no control over . Discrimination not only is theoretically a bad thing to do to people , but also has tangible negative impacts . Discrimination against groups such as the African American community in the USA has left them without the education or employment opportunities to even have a chance at achieving the success and happiness they deserve . Discrimination is unacceptable practice for any society to engage in and victims of discrimination deserve compensation for the physical and psychological harms they suffered from being rejected by their very own community . Past discrimination has left communities without the physical goods and psychological feelings of acceptance and safety all individuals deserve from their country and thus there is a moral obligation of society to take steps to offer the physical and symbolic advantages they have been denied through affirmative action . 	There is a moral obligation to provide affirmative action programs
Classics are useful for understanding the etymology -LRB- the study of the origins and development of words -RRB- of English words . Italian , French , Spanish , Portuguese and Romanian -LRB- the Romance languages -RRB- are derived from Latin : knowledge of Latin vocabulary greatly eases the learning of these languages . Much modern language teaching emphasises conversational skills rather than grammatical rules ; classical language teaching is usually based upon grammar , rather than conversation . Pupils therefore develop a clear understanding of how languages work by studying classical languages ; this can be applied to the study of both their own language and modern foreign languages . 	Knowledge of Latin and Ancient Greek is helpful for those who wish to learn modern languages .
The influence of classical texts upon subsequent writing and thought makes knowledge of Latin and Ancient Greek necessary for many areas of intellectual enquiry . European literature bristles with classical allusions : the work of Dante , Shakespeare , Milton , Goethe and countless others can not be fully appreciated without close familiarity with the canon of classical writing . Since Latin was the language of academic discussion until the eighteenth century , it is of great importance for the study of History and Theology . The teaching of classical languages at school enables people to pursue studies in these areas in later life . 	It is necessary for many further forms of academic research .
Even if all subjects must show practical economic utility , the study of Classics is still justifiable . Translation of Latin and Ancient Greek teaches concentration , attention to detail and logical thought . Debates about the interpretation of classical literature develop the ability to think critically and to construct reasoned arguments . Familiarity with classical literature improves the ability to write clearly , concisely and eloquently . These are all skills valued by employers ; people who have studied Classics have reached the top of politics , commerce , diplomacy and law . 	Translating Latin and Ancient Greek teaches valuable skills .
Learning classical languages gives pleasure to many who study them , since they are satisfying intellectual challenges . A substantial proportion of those who are given the opportunity to study Latin and/or Ancient Greek at school continue this study at university . Societies should not be obsessed with balance sheets and vocational skills , but should seek to provide cultural enrichment to their citizens . It is wrong that the opportunity for such cultural enrichment through classical languages if often only available to those whose parents can afford private education . 	Learning the classics gives its own intellectual pleasure .
The French often call the use of Franglais Anglo snobberie and those who use it as opposed to the standard version of their mother tongue Anglo snobs . This is why the organisation Defense de la langue franaise -LRB- DLF -RRB- exists to invent terminology that prevents the French language from embracing yet more Franglais . The movement supports the use of such words as un balladeur as opposed to un walkman . Dfense de la langue franaise also regulates the quota of Francophone songs that must be played at peak listening hours on French radio stations . Public opinion must be taken into account ; the French DO express opposition to the anglicising of their language and so the Dfense de la langue franaise must be brought into effect , for this is the purpose it seeks to serve and it exists to solve these very problems . 	There are official french alternatives
How a people see the world is encased in the words they use to communicate with each other and the words they use to write songs , poems and stories about their peoples history and experiences . Culture is inseparable from language . For example , the e on the end of a word that is silent in everyday speech becomes pronounced in French poetry and song when it figures on the end of a line , thus adding an extra syllable to that line , and so femme on the end of a line of poetry would not be pronounced fam , but fam-mer , and so an extra syllable results . This principal also helps to create more rhymes within the poetry and song . Therefore , in order to keep the French culture alive , we must too protect its home language from falling to the globally dominant language of English . This is why we need an increased awareness and presence of francophone art ; higher quotas of Francophone songs on the radio and the same of Francophone programmes on television . These two examples demonstrate how the culture itself can be better protected when the language is better upheld 	Protection of language is protection of national identity . Society reflects language and language reflects society .
The French language can not realistically survive if is not upheld as a relevant and respected language in official contexts . It is a very emotive and sensitive issue for the French people . The EU was founded by a Frenchman , Robert Schuman , France and Germany were two of the five founding members , the Union was created to ally France with Germany and before Britain joined , the French vetoed Britains entry . Now , the French feel their part is Europe is becoming diluted by the use of English . By forcing them to accept the English language in the context of an EU meeting only opens the gate to making them accept the same rules as other nations ; if their own language is silenced , so too is their voice of expression and opposition . The following example demonstrates the reality of the threat to the French language being used correctly in formal contexts . In March , 2005 , the then French Prime Minister Jacques Chirac shocked and appalled his people by making an address to the European Union in English . French representatives present walked out in protest . The Times reported in Franglais and somewhat comically on the predominance of English in the Union ; `` Ils sadresseraint lUnion Europenne cinq fois every day en franglais '' -LRB- sic ! -RRB- . When translated from Franglais into English , it reads They address the European Union every day in Franglais . The article implies that Franglais has overtaken standard franais as the accepted means of French communication within the European Union . It is time for more language protection through active measures by the French Government and Dfense de la langue franaise took the matter of defending the French language seriously , and so the measures of increased exposure to French language songs , television shows and films is necessary , as are more French sounding nouns for referring to modern inventions which are generally just known by their English names in France . 	The French language is still increasing in relevance through the European Union
There are four levels of French language . In descending order of formality these are ; Prcieux -LRB- snobby , poetic -RRB- , Soutenu -LRB- literary , written -RRB- , Courant -LRB- public , administrative -RRB- , Familier -LRB- informal language , non-standard popular terms -RRB- , Argotique -LRB- very informal language , offensive if used in the wrong context or said to a stranger -RRB- . the Middle Ages -LRB- ninth century fifteenth century -RRB- -LSB- saw -RSB- the emergence of a new standard language , replacing Latin . Since French - if not began , at least grew up - it has functioned with these four levels of formality . Franglais is not standard French , although many Franglais nouns -LRB- un post-it , un walkman -RRB- would be acceptable in a formal context , and its presence , uprising and prevalence threatens the use and survival of the more formal versions of the language . It is important that the French people are not seduced by the English language but instead know their mother tongue properly and can appreciate and understand these four levels . The acceptance of Franglais and Anglicisms within the French language means there could well be a whole generation of French whose mother tongue is punctuated and littered with Anglicisms . If English influences are allowed to prevail in the French language , then soon any linguist who writes about the French language will only be able to see it in relation to the English language that influences it ; and not as a language in its own right with those four differing levels of formality . If the French language is protected , it will not only be protected against English but against becoming degraded into a language littered with wrong usage ; good French will be upheld and defended against bad French . 	Franglais interferes with the four established levels of the French language .
While nuclear weapons exist , they can fall into the wrong hands . This is particularly prevalent in an environment whereby there are extremist groups actively seeking to cause instant , egregious harm to their ideological and political enemies . Such groups do not lack for funding ; therefore the fear of weapons falling into the wrong hands has never been higher . This is particularly true in Russia , which now has control of all of the nuclear weapons which were distributed around the former Soviet Union . In particular during the 1990s the military was disastrously underfunded ; technicians and officers who were used to a high standard of living found themselves without pay , sometimes for years . At the same time , other states and extremist groups are willing to pay substantial sums for their services , and to gain access to nuclear weapons . This same danger is now as much , if not more , of a problem in Pakistan -LRB- Ambinder , 2011 -RRB- . The danger of a weapon being stolen , or a nuclear base being taken over by disgruntled members of the military or other extremists , can only be ended by destroying the weapons -LRB- Allison , 1997 -RRB- . 	Risk of nuclear weapons falling into the wrong hands
Nuclear weapons are , by their very nature , indiscriminate and disproportional ; any weapon which could not possibly be used in a responsible manner should not be permitted . Over the past fifty years , we have seen a general tendency towards limited warfare and precision weapons , allowing military objectives to be achieved with minimal loss of civilian life . The entire point of nuclear weapons , however , is their massive , indiscriminate destructive power . Their use could kill tens of thousands of civilians directly , and their catastrophic environmental after-effects would harm many more all around the world . These effects could never be morally acceptable , particularly as the basis of ones national security strategy . They place humanity and most forms of life in jeopardy of annihilation -LRB- Krieger , 2003 -RRB- . No state or leader can be entrusted , morally , with that power and responsibility . 	States should not possess such destructive , cataclysmic weapons
The co-operation of the United States and Russia , demonstrated in their regularly-renewed START treaties , confer the ability of nuclear powers to work towards a reduction in nuclear stockpiles . A new campaigning body , Global Zero , has laid out the path to nuclear abolishment , concerning first bilateral accords to reduce stockpiles in the manner already occurring . From there , they advocate the universal acceptance of a comprehensive verification and enforcement system accompanied by tighter controls on fissile materials produced by civil-nuclear programmes -LRB- The Economist , 2011 -RRB- . The process will not be swift , but it is plausible and not a stretch considering the success of previous START treaties and the example of the International Atomic Energy Agency as an independent body charged with verifying nuclear installations . 	Nuclear weapons can be abolished through the co-operation of nuclear powers and the establishment of an independent verification system
By claiming the efficacy of nuclear weapons as a strategic deterrent , the current nuclear powers encourage the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction -LRB- Krieger , 2003 -RRB- . To be a part of the so-called ` nuclear club ' is seen as a matter of great prestige ; when India and Pakistan recently declared their nuclear capability and held mutual tests in the 1990s , it was seen in both countries as increasing their international status . Nevertheless , tensions in the region have only increased since the mutual announcements , not least the Kargil War of 1999 that almost precipitated a nuclear war . Nations opposed to a nuclear power therefore feel that they need to develop their own capability in order to protect themselves . The declared nuclear powers must therefore take the lead in disarmament , as an example for the rest of the world . 	The purported efficacy of nuclear deterrence drives nuclear proliferation and therefore increases the risk of nuclear weapons being utilized
The disproportionate and indiscriminate nature of nuclear weapons use renders their possession illegal under international humanitarian law . The International Court of Justice in 1996 , asked to provide an advisory opinion , declared unanimously that any use or threat of nuclear weapons had to be compatible with existing international law relating to armed conflict -LRB- International Court of Justice , 1996 -RRB- . The principles of discrimination and proportionality inherent in the laws of wars are codified in the Geneva Conventions of 1949 , and are quite clearly violated by nuclear weapons . As such , a majority of the judges present felt that any such use or threat would generally be contrary to those rules of international law and therefore , unanimously , there exists an obligation to pursue in good faith and bring to a conclusion negotiations leading to nuclear disarmament in all its aspects under strict and effective international control -LRB- International Court of Justice , 1996 -RRB- . 	Both the use and threat of nuclear weapons are illegal
Hosting creates a ` feel-good factor ' . It is hard to put a price on the buzz that surrounds international sporting events . Think of Paris during the World Football Cup in 1998 or Sydney during the 2002 Olympics . Even sporting success abroad can unite a nation -LRB- for example the England Rugby Union Team 's victory in the 2003 Rugby World Cup in Australia -RRB- . Governments are aware of the huge potential for boosting national pride and national unity . The Paris 2012 bid has used a well-known footballer , Zinedine Zidane , who is the son of an immigrant to stress how hosting the Olympics would bring Parisians of all backgrounds together . It is partly because of this ` feel-good factor ' that so many people want their city to host the Olympics -LRB- 97 % of Parisians and 87 % of Londoners want the 2012 Olympics -RRB- . 	Hosting creates a 'feel-good ' factor
Hosting stimulates regeneration . The IOC is enthusiastic about bids that will leave a lasting impact and have looked favourably on cities that locate their Olympic Villages and stadia in deprived areas in need of regeneration . The 1992 Barcelona Olympics were used as a means to completely overhaul the port and coast of the city creating an artificial beach and waterside cultural area that became a lasting tourist attraction . Along with cleaning up areas and new stadia , Olympic Villages release between 5,000 and 20,000 new homes which governments can chose to hand over as low-cost housing -LRB- as is proposed for London 2012 -RRB- . Whilst these projects could be completed without the Olympics , the need to provide an overall package -LRB- transport , accommodation , stadia , greenery etc . -RRB- for a set deadline means that there is far more incentive to get the projects done . An example of this in London is the plan for a new 15bn underground rail system called Crossrail , first proposed over 20 years ago but only now being developed because of the attention surrounding the London 2012 bid . The fact that international scrutiny will follow the building program means that it is far more likely to be completed to a high standard -LRB- consider the detailed coverage of the preparations for Athens 2004 -RRB- . 	Hosting stimulates regeneration in local areas
Hosting creates an economic boost . Whilst none of the Olympics of recent times have made an immediate profit , the cost of the regeneration and improved infrastructure means that this is not a big problem as long as the losses are not huge . The Olympics showcases the host nation to the world and most hosts have seen a boost in tourism in the years after the Olympics -LRB- Australia estimates it gained2bn extra tourist revenue in the four years after Sydney 2000 -RRB- . During the games between 60,000 -LRB- Paris 2012 estimate -RRB- and 135,000 -LRB- New York 2012 estimate -RRB- jobs are created providing skills and training to local people . 	Hosting has wide-reaching economic benefits
The Olympics are a showcase . Hosting the Olympics can be a way of making a strong political point because of the intense media scrutiny that accompanies the games . During the Cold War both Moscow 1980 and Los Angeles 1984 were used by the USSR and USA to show their economic strength . Seoul in 1988 used the games to demonstrate South Korea 's economic and political maturity . The Beijing Olympics in 2008 are seen by many as evidence of China 's acceptance into the global community and a way for her to showcase her economic growth and acceptance of the West . For New York , the 2012 bid is a way of showing that the post-9 / 11 healing process has been completed and that the city is ` open for business ' despite the terrorist attacks . 	The Olympics are a national showcase
Governments already protect culture so it is not a big step to apply the same protections to aboriginal culture as well . In school , students learn about traditional art and their national history . For example , the state of California compiles reading lists that largely include Shakespeare , Virgil , and John Steinback , though also including ethnic authors like Maya Angelou . Governments recognize days like Christmas and New Years and fund programs that promote the arts . States recognize marriage and structure divorce and custody laws based on cultural norms of gender roles and family responsibility . If a government can protect the norms on one culture in society , there is no reason that the government should not also protect the culture of those who first inhabited the land . This current protection makes it easy to build on , to make highlight more aboriginal culture , recognize their festivals etc . . 	Governments protect culture every day
Notions of cultural superiority virtually always influence displacement and abuse of indigenous cultures . For example , when the government of Botswana expelled the Kalahari Bushmen from their land in 2002 , President Mogai defended his actions by describing the bushmen as `` stone age creatures . '' This cultural insensitivity , in addition to the incentive of material gains , led the Botswani government to violate the tribe 's rights . By preserving indigenous culture , governments recognize the value of these groups and prevent future hostility . 	The preservation of displaced cultures is important in preventing future oppression .
Across the United States , Australia , and Canada , native customs are often tied closely to the land . For example , while descendants of the Sioux Indians of the American Midwest may no longer hunt buffalo , learning about traditional means of hunting , animal use , rituals involving the surrounding wildlife , means of ensuring a sustainable food supply , and other cultural norms related to the land gives people a greater appreciation for the land they now inhabit . Exposure to traditions that have been practiced in one 's land for thousands of years helps us to appreciate the legacy we have inherited . This does not just benefit the direct descendants of those practicing these traditions but the whole of society . 	All of society benefits from protection of indigenous culture
The Indian Removal Act of 1830 , the 1871 Indian Appropriations Act , and the 1887 General Allotment Act are just a few examples of legislation used to destroy Native American communities in the US . Settlers in Australia are similarly responsible for a multitude of massacres , as well as several decades of forced separation of aboriginal children from their parents in an effort to `` Christianize '' them . While the current citizens of Canada , the US , and Australia are not guilty of the crimes of their predecessors , they nevertheless reap the benefits of those atrocities while today 's indigenous populations still suffer from the lasting impact of oppression . When chemical companies make huge profits at the expense of damaging the surrounding community 's environment , those companies are expected to pay reparations . A government that destroys an indigenous culture must similarly work to reverse their destruction . `` Living With the Past , '' FOCUS September 1997 , Vol . 9 , Asia-Pacific Human Rights Information Center . 	Existing states are responsible for the destruction of indigenous populations and their societies , and thereby have an obligation to help reverse the effects of their actions
Nobody disputes the fact that extreme right and left parties should be allowed representation if they can gain the support of a large enough section of the voting public . Irrespective of their views , parties must all be given an equal chance of representation . ` Better ' democracy must include extremism . However , AV makes it much less likely that extremist parties will be elected , as they are unlikely to get the required 50 % support , instead of the 25-30 % they currently need if support for opposing parties is split . 	AV makes it more difficult for extremist parties to win representation
Unlike other proportional representation systems the alternative vote is easy to implement when changing from first past the post . This is because AV does not represent a very large change in terms of how the voting system would work . AV keeps the same constituencies so MPs and candidates would be competing for the same votes they have always done . Voters would remain in the same constituency so preventing any confusion that would be involved in a fully proportional system . The relative small change and therefore the ease to implement can be shown by the relatively small changes had the 2010 general election been fought under AV . Labour would have won ten fewer seats , the Conservatives twenty three less and Liberal Democrats thirty two more . 	AV is easy to implement
Under FPTP , party representatives can focus on the concerns of 30 % or so of citizens on whose vote they rely on for re-election . This results in tribal politics . AV , in forcing MPs to gain 50 % of votes , forces them to consider those outside their core voters . Also , according to the Jenkins report -LRB- see bibliography -RRB- AV would be likely to create more marginal seats ; this is good for democracy . Parties currently place more extreme candidates in safe seats to ensure they get elected . Decreasing the number of safe seats is another way of ensuring that candidates have to address all members of their population and be accountable to all constituents . The Political Studies Association suggests that `` Evidence from the UK and elsewhere suggests that MPs in marginal seats do focus on servicing their constituency more than those in safe seats . '' 	AV makes MPs more accountable to their constituents
Under the FPTP electoral system , supporters of minority parties either waste their vote to support their ideals , or decide which of the leading parties they dislike lease and vote accordingly . Research reported by the British Academy indicates that 15 % of people voted for a party other than their most preferred in the 2005 general election . This leaves voters unhappy at having to vote for the lesser of two evils . This also perpetuates the tradition two-party politics in the UK , as it makes it hard for a third party to gain enough votes to break through nationally . `` Under AV there would be no technical reason for voting tactically for your most preferred candidate . '' AV allows voters to express their preferences honestly , as their first preference vote can be a protest vote for a minority party ; when that is inevitably eliminated , their mainstream vote will still contribute to the result . AV encourages positive voting . This also means that voters feel that all votes matter . FPTP disenfranchises many who do not vote for the two main parties . It is still one person one vote , it is just that some people 's vote may be for different candidates in different rounds if their first preference has been eliminated . Everyone has a say in the final outcome . 	AV eliminates the need for negative or tactical voting
Given that it may not be possible to use legal or monitoring systems to encourage parents to take better care of their children , making parenting classes compulsory would help prioritise the best interests of the child -LRB- in terms of health and future opportunities -RRB- without necessarily constraining the educational choices of parents.Parenting classes would help ensure that parents know what is regarded as good for their children and would promote the rights of young people to a decent upbringing , whilst only minimally impacting on parents.In 2006 , the then Home Secretary John Reid argues that ` By tackling bad parenting we are tackling child disadvantage and social exclusion . For example , 90 per cent of repeating juvenile offenders have a history of behaviour problems as a child . ' 1 . 	Parenting classes promote childrens right to a high standard of parenting .
Currently , information about parenting is scarce , patchy and inconsistent . It would benefit all if up-to-date parenting information provided by medical staff , psychologists , nutritionists , educators and so on , were made accessible and standardised : all parents would receive the same basic and essential information . And information is always valuable and often appreciated by those who receive it . The charity Barnardos argues that those who attended their classes were unanimously positive about the impact of courses and were clear that attending them provided them with new skills and confidence in their parenting ability . Parenting classes would provide up-to-date and standardized information useful to guide prospective parents behaviour and it would not amount to imposing one model of parenting on all . 	Standardised information has great value .
In our times , when contraception is widely available and affordable , reproduction should be an active and responsible choice on the part of individuals . Parenting classes would be instrumental in ensuring that people reflect upon their decision to have children and understand the implications of their choice.Moreover , if the lifestyle choice of having children is supported by the state -LRB- through tax breaks , benefits and entitlements -RRB- , then it would seem that the state is justified in applying some minimal conditions to people who wish to benefit from its support . So parenting classes would be a means for the state to safeguard its interest in having responsible citizens . 1 . . 	State help should be dependent on attendance of classes .
Parenting classes would need to be compulsory for a number of reasons . Firstly - for all of the subjectivity regarding parenting there are clearly some cases where bad parenting is responsible for some of the childs failings . A morbidly obese 15 year old with a criminal record , no school qualifications and poor health has , almost certainly , been let down by his or her parents . However the state has no way of knowing in advance as to which parents will struggle in this manner hence it is better if the classes are for everyone . Furthermore , it seems fair to assume that parents who are somehow socially excluded , wilfully ignorant or suffering some other acute difficulty in raising children , would probably be less likely to take the active step of attending voluntary classes in the first place . According to a report on UK Childrens services referral to get help tends to be self-referral by those who have less need whereas those with higher needs have to be referred by others before they will accept the help Thus voluntary classes may actually be structurally biased to miss the cases in which they are most needed . A compulsory system is likely to offer far better outcomes across society . 	Classes would have to be compulsory to be effective
The state has a strong moral , practical and financial interest in the raising of its future citizens . This is why most liberal democracies offer extensive and costly child support systems -LRB- including child-support payments , free nursery care , parental leave arrangements -RRB- to aid parents in raising young people who can be active and respectful members of society . Louise Casey , Government Respect Co-ordinator , argues that the best results come from preventative action : I think we have got to do everything to make sure we are tackling not just anti-social behaviour today , but preventing the next generation of people growing up with signs of anti-social behaviour in the future . Compulsory parenting classes could be a means to ensure the cohesion and prosperity of its future generations by raising the standard of parenting they receive . news.bbc.co.uk / 1/hi/world / asia-pacific/6168474 . 	Bad parenting has an impact on the rest of society .
Children do not have the emotional maturity to be responsible in law for their actions . We all know that children can not always make informed decisions . It is for this reason that children in many countries can not vote or drink alcohol or consent to sex . Children have not had enough experience of life and do not yet have the same mental and emotional abilities as adults . They are often not aware of the consequences of their actions . Even where they know the difference between right and wrong , they often do n't understand the difference between various levels of wrongdoing . It is therefore unfair to hold them criminally responsible for these actions . See for example the case of two boys -LRB- of 10 and 11 -RRB- convicted of raping an 8 year old girl ; there was a suggestion that they believed they were only playing a game , and did not understand the importance of what happened . 	Children do not understand the difference between right and wrong .
Given the serious consequences of being found guilty , it is important that people have a fair trial to find out whether they are guilty and to make sure any punishment is just . Children often struggle to understand the trial process which may be long , technical and stressful . Children are unlikely to have the concentration to follow the evidence properly and may not be able to give clear and consistent instructions to their lawyers . This can lead to great injustice if the child can not adequately follow the trial because they do not understand , or are intimidated by , the strange setting and the language used . For example , in the Jamie Bulger case -LRB- see above -RRB- , it was noted that throughout much of the three week trial the boys looked bewildered and bored , and that neither boy gave evidence . 	Children can not receive a fair trial .
We should address these circumstances rather than punishing them . Studies show that they are often vulnerable children who have grown up in poverty , been uncared for by their parents , moved house a lot , been abused , been victims or members of gang activity , and often skipped school . Rather than sending these children to young offender institutes , often harming their education and training them to be criminals , we should take other measures . As in Norway , for example , social authorities should take action to secure the child 's development through counselling or time in a special care unit . Measures should depend of the child 's circumstances , rather than how bad their crime was . This is more likely to reduce criminal behaviour in the future . In addition , there are issues about ` class ' here . Rich children are less likely to be criminalised because their parents can deal better with the situation and pay for better lawyers . 	Children who commit crimes are victims of circumstance .
Space exploration is about more than the end , what is discovered or answered , it is also about the means , the process by which we are able to traverse the Universe . In 1969 , the Moon landing acted as the catalyst for a whole generation of children 's love for all things space and the proliferation of young men and women seeking to become astronauts . Though demand could not meet supply , many remained in the field and took up jobs in civil engineering , scientific research and medicine . Such intangible benefits to the fields of science and engineering , as John Logsdon argues , can not so easily be calculated and contrasted with the concrete figures that symbolize the costs of space programs . 	Space exploration serves as a stimulus for children to enter the fields of science and engineering
Since Sputnik was launched in 1957 , the space race has given rise to an infrastructure , particularly in the United States and Russia , which can be exploited for economies of scale . The cost of developing shuttles and training astronauts is far cheaper in Cape Carnarvon where the necessary equipment and skills lie to do so . Furthermore , the International Space Station costs upwards of $ 100 billion , however it serves as a terminal where shuttles can thereafter be pointed to any corner of the universe . The potential therefore is to save costs by using the existence of the ISS as a stepping stone to elsewhere . To not use fifty years of space development and technology is to render all that investment meaningless . 	State-sponsored space programs can utilize the infrastructure built up in the last half-century , and therefore be substantially cheaper
The exploitation of space has directly changed our world . Satellites orbiting the Earth allow us to communicate instantaneously with people on different continents , and to broadcast to people all over the world . The Global Positioning System allows us to pinpoint our location anywhere in the world . Weather satellites save lives by giving advance warning of adverse conditions , and together with other scientific instruments in orbit they have helped us understand our own world better . Research into climate change , for example , would be almost impossible without the data provided by satellites . 	Space exploration has improved communications on Earth
Mankind must always struggle to expand its horizons . The desire to know what lies beyond current knowledge , the curiosity that constantly pushes at the boundaries of our understanding , is one of our noblest characteristics . The exploration of the universe is a high ideal - space truly is the final frontier . The instinct to explore is fundamentally human ; already some of our most amazing achievements have taken place in space . No-one can deny the sense of wonder , world-wide , when for the first time a new man-made star rose in the sky , or when Neil Armstrong first stepped onto the moon and uttered his infamous words . Space exploration speaks to that part of us which rises above the everyday . The future question is not whether humans should be exploring space , but , as former NASA Director G. Scott Hubbard suggests , ` to be sure that they accomplish meaningful exploration . ' 	It is a moral imperative to constantly seek to expand the boundaries of knowledge
Space exploration has also led to many indirect benefits . The challenge and difficulty of the space program , and its ability to draw on some of the finest minds , has brought about great leaps in technology . The need to reduce weight on rockets led to miniaturization , and so to the micro-chip and the modern computer . The need to produce safe but efficient power-sources for the Apollo missions led to the development of practical fuel-cells , which are now being explored as a possible future power-source for cleaner cars . The effects of zero-gravity on astronauts has substantially added to our knowledge of the workings of the human body , and the ageing process . We can never know exactly which benefits will emerge from the space program in future , but we do know that we will constantly meet new obstacles in pursuit of our goals , and in overcoming them will find new solutions to old problems . 	Space exploration leads to technological advancement
The past few years have seen African governments , and heads of state , reluctant to leave office ; driving political coups ; and leading violent crimes against humanity . Mugabe , Kabila , and Kenyatta are but a few articulating the years of sustained bad governance . The prize is only awarded when credit is due - if leaders have made a significant positive impact this will be recognised and rewarded . The prize is therefore for absolute gains in governance , not relative to other countries . As the prize is not always awarded it avoids the pitfall that distributing a financial prize where no change has been made to political institutions would reinforce a system . The state would continue to function on undemocratic governance , and the reward would become a new example of dead money . Instead it encourages improved control over aid and money transferred to African states , it shows that rewards are given based on merit . The Mo Ibrahim prize therefore encourages the good institutions that are necessary for prosperity -LRB- Acemoglu and Robinson , 2013 -RRB- . See further readings : Moyo , 2009 . 	Recognition when credit is due
Previous winners - such as Nelson Mandela and Pedro Pires - made significant changes to their nation-states , ending apartheid and promoting social development . The former leaders provided equality and a functioning democracy to their people . Such needs to be the aim of leaders today . Providing a prize to the highest achievers provides an example . It highlights leaders from even small countries such as Cape Verdes Pires that can serve as role models for Africas leaders . Without the prize the most likely role models would simply be those of the biggest states who are highest profile . Mo Ibrahim -LRB- 2013 -RRB- has stated the prize is for excellence , its not a pension . This is why it is not always awarded . The prize is only be awarded when high-standards of good governance are replicated , and maintained , by leaders . Focusing on the top of government encourages a top down implementation of good government . When the leader acts others will follow ; a comparatively small amount of money can therefore make a big difference . 	Focusing on the leaders of good governance
While the ICC feels free to interfere with African countries it would never dare to do so in a western country ; leaders such as George Bush , Tony Blair , Nicholas Sarkozy and others who have launched various armed interventions have not been put on trial . Not only is it victimization and interference the trial of Kenyatta is also likely to be pointless ; it is on the point of collapse . The prosecutor Fatou Bensouda has stated Having carefully considered my evidence and the impact of the two withdrawals , I have come to the conclusion that currently the case against Mr. Kenyatta does not satisfy the high evidentiary standards required at trial . AFP , ` Not enough evidence for Kenyatta trial ' : ICC prosecutor , , 19 December 2013 , 	A pointless trial that victimizes African leaders
Uhuru Kenyatta is a sitting president of a democratic nation . This means that he was elected by the people to serve them . By indicting a sitting leader , you undermine their ability to rule the country as they will be forced to spend long periods outside their country focusing on something that is irrelevant to the governance of their country . The ICC has demanded that Kenyatta and Ruto attend the trial in person . By forcing the President and Deputy President to spend long hours away from the country involved in a trial the ICC is effectively disenfranchising the people who voted from him to be their leader . Further , Kenyatta is first and foremost accountable to the Kenyan people , who have chosen him as leader despite these claims . It is clearly unwelcome interference by the ICC for the court to take the President away from his duties . Statement by ICC , Kenyatta case : ICC Trial Chamber V -LRB- b -RRB- reviews decision on presence of accused at trial , , 27 November 2013 , 	The ICC indictment undermines democracy
Kenya has a functioning judiciary and police force . They have successfully prosecuted some individuals for these crimes and it should be left to Kenya to deliver justice for itself . There have been several cases brought before the courts . Kenyans overwhelmingly see the ICC is imperialist , and 61 % want the ICC to terminate its case against Kenyatta . If and when Kenyas leaders should be tried should be left to the domestic judiciary to decide . Nebehay , Stephanie , UN urges Kenya to probe violence after 2007 elections , , 26 July 2012 , Wanyama , Henry , Kenya : 61 Percent of Kenyans Want ICC Cases Dropped Poll , , 1 February 2014 , 	Kenya can prosecute these crimes itself
While Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto have been visiting the ICC , they should have been leading their countries . While the indictment has occurred both have remained the leaders of their countries , but have been absent while major events such as the Westgate shootings occurred . Despite the need to strong leadership in the midst of a potentially divisive event , Ruto was only granted one week away from trial . Having a clear and stable leadership is important for Kenya to develop , restrict violence and ensure that policy development is able to continue , particularly given the cross-ethnic powering sharing arrangement between Kenyatta and Ruto . Absence of leadership during the fear and uncertainty surrounding this event might lead to a fresh round of violence as supporters take to the streets in protest this election had put former enemies Kenyatta and Ruto together , easing ethnic tensions in the region . Ndonga , Wamubi , Kenya : Ruto Can Return to Kenya For A Week Over Westgate ICC , , 23 September 2013 , Will Africa pull out of the ICC ? , , 11 October 2013 , 	Having the president out of the country undermines stability
For some commentators , Africas biggest problem is that its countries are remnants of colonial empires . In the post-colonial period , borders were drawn between states randomly , creating ethnic tension and geographic dissonance . Qaddafi argued that peace will break out when Africas borders disappear . As Saadi Touval argued The borders are blamed for the disappearance of a unity which supposed existed in Africa in precolonial times The borders are considered to be one of the humiliating legacies of colonialism , which , according to this view , independent Africa ought to abolish . Though unification is the end goal , the short-term objective is to create an African free trade area with some semblance of regional organization . Most importantly , the AU has abandoned the notion of absolute `` state sovereignty '' : it can `` peer review '' the human rights and political situation in any of its members . The EU was established after WWII to assist in the rebuilding of Europe ; why cant the AU do the same in Africa ? 	Integration will fix the problem of borders
While African integration has been slow there has been real progress in constructing the building blocks to allow further integration . African countries are already somewhat integrated : for example 14 countries in West and Central Africa use the CFA franc as currency and there are regional blocks in West Africa and East Africa . The existence of these regional free trade areas the Economic Community of Central African States -LRB- ECCAS -RRB- , the Economic Community of West African States -LRB- ECOWAS -RRB- , the East African Community -LRB- EAC -RRB- , Common Market for Eastern and Southern African Countries -LRB- COMESA -RRB- , and the Southern African Development Community -LRB- SADC -RRB- will eventually provide the springboard for further integration throughout the whole of Africa . The latter three of these communities have signed a memorandum of understanding to cooperate on integration and harmonise areas such as trade . More importantly , despite problems with the creation of a single currency , the EU remains a good model for the AU : no one would suggest that the EU is in danger of being disbanded . Though its members might have differences as to its exact structure , that debate is no different than in any other confederation . 	There is already some African integration that can be built on .
Integration can bring peace ; just like the European Union has in Europe . Since the fall of the Berlin Wall , the UN has slowly changed its relationship with regional organizations . It is more willing and through its agenda for peace has been demanding that regional organizations be responsible for peacekeeping , state-building and humanitarian assistance . Part of the reasoning is that these states are more sensitive to local customs , concerns and diplomacy . Already , the African Union has taken on several peacekeeping initiatives ; first in Burundi in 2003m and more recently on-going missions in in Darfur , Sudan , since 2004 and in Somalia since 2007 . The AU also allows regional economic communities to take a lead in responding threats to peace so allowing action to be taken at the appropriate level . 	The AU can bring peace to the continent
Between 2003-2009 the annual growth rate of mobile cellular subscriptions in Tanzania was 44.21 % , higher than the average in Africa -LRB- Ondiege , 2010 -RRB- . Estimations suggest around 18bn Tsh will be collected a month through the SIM card tax model -LRB- Rweyemamu , 2013 -RRB- . In 2012 , Tanzanias total GDP was calculated at ~ 45tr Tsh - the tax could therefore provide almost 0.5 % of GDP in taxes . Such a boost in government taxation will enable projects such as improving rural infrastructure -LRB- including potentially mobile phone coverage ! -RRB- or help reduce the deficit . That one tax can raise so much shows the potential of this kind of taxation . Equates to ~ 11.2 mn USD -LRB- January 2013 -RRB- . Calculated based on World Bank Data -LRB- 2013 -RRB- and exchange rate as per January 2013 . 	Building productive capacity through increasing revenue
In order to sustain development and growth nations need to build domestic resource mobilisation capacities - through collecting tax and savings . Domestic resource mobilisation enables the transition into a capitalist mode of production - poverty can be targeted and sufficient economies built . Social and economic facilities can be provided . To meet the Millennium Development Goals -LRB- MDGs -RRB- and enhance performance capacity African nation-states need to improve the amount of funding they raise through taxes . In order for development to be assisted , international donors and intervention needs to focus on encouraging innovative models of taxation such as taxing mobile phones . Such taxes dont have the track record of failure other taxes have providing a new opportunity to redesign the taxation system . Initiatives such as the mobile phone tax provide a trial for such a new model helping to gain support for future changes . See : UNCTAD , 2007 . 	The importance of mobilising domestic resources
Neo-functionalism is an accessible theory which provides a good starting point for analysis . As a theory it has the advantages of being able to predict the outcome of integration and clearly explains which actors must be studied in order to explain integration . Haas and Lindbergs main thesis was that sectorial integration was inherently expansive - integration of some functional tasks would tend to spill over into integration of other tasks -LRB- -RRB- In the basis of this analysis , Haas argued that an acceleration of the integration process could be ` safely predicted ' and that it might lead to a ` political community of Europe ' within a decade . Tranholm-Mikkelsen , Jeppe `` Neo-functionalism : Obstinate or Obsolete ? A Reappraisal in the Light of the New Dynamism of the EC Millennium - Journal of International Studies , Vol . 20 , No . 1 , pp.1-22 , 	Neo-functionalism provides a good starting point for EU analysis .
Neo-functionalism proposed building a community Europe , through the concept of spillover the theory proposes economic determinism . Spill-over will eventually lead to a completely integrated Europe with a strong central government . This has not yet been proved true , as EU integration has become a long and difficult process . This is understandable since it is not exactly easy to integrate together all those policies , economies and people . However this would most probably be the eventual result , which is already visible : The experience of the European Union -LRB- EU -RRB- is widely perceived as not just an example , but the model for regional integration . In recent years , the EU has also been pursuing an increasing number of trade agreements which may in turn lead to spillover . Furthermore the recent enlargements of the EU in Eastern Europe , as well as the ongoing negotiations with Croatia and Turkey have renewed the academic and political interest in the effects of European Economic integration . One of the theorys strengths is to predict the outcome of integration and an eventual conclusion to the process , allowing for political and economic aims to be made and realised . For example Larger companies have been acting on the assumption that the internal market will eventually be established . Bilal , Sanoussi , Can the EU Be a Model of Regional Integration ? , Paper to be presented at the CODESRIA - Globalisation Studies Network -LRB- GSN -RRB- , 29-31 August 2005 , Lafourcade , Miren , and Paluzie , Elisenda , European Integration , FDI and the Internal Geography of Trade : Evidence from Western-European Border Regions , 23 December 2004 , Tranholm-Mikkelsen , Jeppe , Neo-functionalism : Obstinate or Obsolete ? A Reappraisal in the Light of the New Dynamism of the EC , Millennium - Journal of International Studies , Vol . 20 , No . 1 , pp.1-22 , 	Neo-functionalism proposes a purpose to EU integration .
Neo-functionalism is an example of a liberal theory of regional integration . Its focus is on human welfare needs , not political conflict and law . Its focus is on individuals aggregated into interest groups as the main actors in integration , so the focus is on low politics and the areas which become integrated in the European Union reflect that . As such there has been much more progress on economic integration than there has on creating a common foreign and security policy . It also accepts the independent role of international organisations and that the transformation of the international regional system towards a better order is feasible so making the European Union a project worth investing effort in . Center for European studies , European Union Common Foreign and Security Policy , unc.edu , 	Neo-functionalism - liberal theory of regional integration
The role of supranational entrepreneurs within the development of integration within Europe has been crucial . Characters such as Jean Monnet envisaged and worked continuously towards uniting Europe . As the head of France 's General Planning Commission , Monnet was the real author of what has become known as the 1950 Schuman Plan to create the European Coal and Steel Community -LRB- ECSC -RRB- , forerunner of the Common Market . Later a similar role was played by Jacques Delors with the creation of the Single European Act -LRB- SEA -RRB- and the all-important 1992 project that would see the single market and eventually fully Economic and Monetary Union complete . These characters act in support of integration within Europe and represent an empirical example of cultivated spill-over . Unmitigated pressure from Delors in pushing for the single market ensured that it became a reality in the time it did . 	Supranational Entrepreneurs played a crucial role in integration
Spill-over is the following concept in order to enjoy the full benefits of integration of the first sector you need to integrate the related sectors . An example of this is the ECSC -LRB- European Coal and Steel Community -RRB- evolving into other energy sectors and forming Euratom . There are three types of spill-over functional spill-over , political spill-over and cultivated spill-over . Firstly , functional spill-over , which regards spill-over in an economic context . For example , this might involve integrating coal and steel , then integrating transport systems so that coal and steel are moved around more easily . Secondly , there is Political spill-over , where political actors shift their allegiance to a new centre , for example from the national parliament to Brussels . Thirdly , there is cultivated spill-over , which is the idea that institutions drive further integration by being in practice ; for example the European Commissions growing autonomy . Tranholm-Mikkelsen , Jeppe `` Neo-functionalism : Obstinate or Obsolete ? A Reappraisal in the Light of the New Dynamism of the EC Millennium - Journal of International Studies , Vol . 20 , No . 1 , pp.1-22 , 	Neo-functionalism explains the cause of integration
Tactical voting is the purposeful casting of votes to sway an outcome . When the outcome is predicted in an opinion poll , it can influence voters to possibly cast a ballot differently than had that poll information not existed . This means that the votes are being cast based upon inaccurate assumptions . For instance , in the 1992 U.K. elections all polls predicted a Labour victory . However , against all expectations , the Conservatives won . It is wholly possible that many people , ensured of a seeming Labour victory , then decided to vote for the Conservatives tactically to ensure that there would be a balance in the House of Commons or even out of sympathy , the underdog effect . Or decided to vote for their first preference minor party , such as the liberal democrats , because they believed the Conservatives would be voted out without their needing to cast their votes tactically for Labour . Thus , it is possible that the voters didnt accomplish the government they actually wanted , as they cast votes based on opinion polls . The unintended outcomes are a result of these opinion polls and tactical voting . Traugott , Michael W. , and Lavrakas , Paul J. , , Fourth Edition , Rowman & Littlefield Publishers , 2008 , p. 202 	Opinion polls can lead to tactical voting which may have unintended outcomes .
When opinion polls become the constant focus of the media , politicians are forced to pander to an ever-changing public marketplace instead of developing a consistent party or personal philosophy . Candidates become overly involved in defending and explaining poll data . Voters become the consumers of political marketing . The democratic process is diminished when changing opinion polls interrupts substantive dialogue . Without the excessive use of poll data , a candidates message can be more than an advertisement . Rather than the marketing of a person , important political ideas and public policy discussion occur . Even though poll data would be available during the earlier election season , a plan to control opinion polls would begin to diminish such a focus . The advantage would be less political marketing and room for better democratic discussion . 	Politicians will be less likely to engaged in political marketing and speak more directly to substantive issues .
Since opinion polls are the products of research , they can also be heavily manipulated by the organization performing or commissioning the poll in question . A bias can easily be created by selecting a certain target group , such as a 2011 AP opinion poll which asked more democrats than republicans , or more usually through asking certain questions or phrasing them in a particular way . For example it has been found that Americans are more likely to support spending for the poor than for welfare . This information can generate false information and untrue or exaggerated claims . Even if the research is done with an objective mindset , the research technique or reporting method can skew the results . For example , the opinion polls seldom report the measure of uncertainty of the conclusions , by for example reporting standards deviations from means , sample size , etc . . These measures are usually not published . Reporting the results of opinion polls without further statistical information leads to more misinformation . One such example comes from the exit polls of the 2004 U.S. Presidential election . Many of the election polls predicted a win for Kerry , but didnt consider the fact that Republicans were less likely to respond to an exit poll leading to inaccurate conclusions about what would occur . Thus , opinion polls are not necessarily trustworthy sources of information on which voters can make good decisions . Geraghty , Jim , Latest AP Poll Sample Skews to Democrats by 17 Points , , 11 May 2011 , Abroff , Sarah , Question Wording and Issue Salience of Public Opinion Polls : The Energy Crisis Prior to the 2008 Presidential Election , 6 January 2010 , Benen , Steve , Exit Poll Update , , 17 November 2004 , 	Opinion polls are subject to bias and often produce faulty information on which decision are made .
This would ensure a more democratic discussion immediately prior to the decision making process of voting . This does not harm free expression because it is serving a specific purpose at a specific time . For instance , during times of national security or disaster certain citizen behaviour is restricted . Since there is information on public opinion in all of the other weeks of the year , this two week moratorium would solve some of the harms of published opinion polls . There would be less stifling of discussion , voters would not be subjected to possibly biased information or misused statistics at this critical time of thinking and making a wise choice . Tactical voting is likely to be used less , and minority voices are not as likely to be overshadowed by popularly claimed opinions . Therefore , we propose that opinion polls not be published 2 weeks prior to an election . 	Opinion Polls should not be published 2 weeks in advance of an election .
In democratic nations public opinion matters as it is the public who ultimately decides who wins office and opinion polls measure that opinion . As a result politicians have become obsessed with the shifting whims of public opinion upon which the media focuses forcing politicians also focus on popular opinion even between elections . Since the media carries the news , the active use of opinion polls by the media drives the policy agenda . Lack of information on critical issues is likely to result as politicians focus only on areas where the opinion polls highlight . Democracy is also harmed by the publication of opinion polls as subsequent citizen voter behaviour can be influenced . When , for example , an opinion poll portrays a huge majority for a certain subject , or for a particular party , its opponents might be less vocal since they feel outnumbered or that decisions have already been made thus diminishing democratic dialogue . Undecided voters may be apathetic toward the election process since they appear to be a foregone conclusion . The potential influence on voters choices is the reason the France forbids opinion polls shortly before an election . Blocman , Ban on Publishing Public Opinion Polls , 1999 , 	: Opinion polls are harmful to the democratic process because they stifle debate
Parents who are willing to monitor their childrens digital communications also benefit themselves . By setting up the necessary software and apps to secure their childrens online growth , parents familiarize themselves with basic digital skills and keep up with the latest in social media . As it stands there is a need to raise digital awareness among most parents . Sonia Livingston and Magdalena Bober in their extensive survey of the cyber experience of UK children and their parents report that among parents only 1 in 3 know how to set up an email account , and only a fifth or fewer are able to set up a filter , remove a virus , download music or fix a problem . -LSB- 1 -RSB- Parents becoming more digitally involved as a result of their children provides the added benefit of increasing the number of mature netizens so encouraging norms of good behavior online . -LSB- 1 -RSB- 	Monitoring raises digital awareness among parents .
A 2005 study by the London School of Economics found that while 57 per cent of the over-nines had seen porn online , only 16 per cent of parents knew . -LSB- 1 -RSB- That number is almost certain to have increased . In addition sexting has also become prevalent as research from the UK suggests over a third -LRB- 38 % -RRB- -LSB- of -RSB- under 18s have received an offensive or distressing sexual image via text or email . -LSB- 2 -RSB- This is dangerous because this digital reality extends to the real world . -LSB- 3 -RSB- W.L . Marshall says that early exposure to pornography may incite children to act out sexually against other children and may shape their sexual attitudes negatively , manifesting as insensitivity towards women and undervaluing monogamy . Only with monitoring can parents have absolute certainy of what their children are doing on the Internet . It may not allow them to prevent children from viewing pornography completely , but regulating the digital use of their children in such a way does not have to limit their digital freedoms or human rights . -LSB- 1 -RSB- -LSB- 2 -RSB- -LSB- 3 -RSB- Hughes , Donna Rice . . Michigan : Fleming H. Revell , 1998 . ProtectKids . Web . May 2013 . 	Monitoring decreases childrens involvement with pornography .
Parents also need to monitor their children to ensure that they are properly using the time they have with the computer and the mobile phone . According to the Kaiser Family Foundation 40 % of 8 - to 18-year olds spend 54 minutes a day on social media sites . -LSB- 1 -RSB- and that when alerted to a new social networking site activity , like a new tweet or Facebook message , users take 20 to 25 minutes on average to return to the original task resulting to 20 % lower grades . -LSB- 2 -RSB- Thus , parents must constantly monitor the digital activities of their children and see whether they have been maximizing the technology at their disposal in terms of researching for their homework , connecting with good friends and relatives , and many more . -LSB- 1 -RSB- -LSB- 2 -RSB- 	Monitoring allows parents to correct children who are wasting their time .
Arranged marriages have not been a part of the cultures of most European countries for many years now . Part of the reason for this is because ideas about marriage have become more progressive , with people accepting that men and women of any orientation should be allowed to choose their own partners . This was even the case during the socially conservative era of the 1950s , when it was generally accepted in countries like Britain that people would court and meet their partners independently of their parents . Arranged marriages also conform to a view of women in particular which regards them as chattel . This does not fit in with the type of egalitarianism many European countries seek to practice , and thus does not conform to Western notions of individual rights . It is also hypocritical to adopt a double-standard with diaspora communities , turning a blind eye to practices which many other majority groups find reprehensible . The rights and norms of a country of block of countries such as the EU must apply to all . Cook , Hera , No Turning Back : Family forms and sexual mores in modern Britain , History & Policy - -LRB- accessed on 19 September 2012 -RRB- Human Rights with Reference to Women , UKEssays.com - -LRB- accessed on 19 September 2012 -RRB- 	Integration and the acceptance of Western values are important
Arranged marriages are often different when practiced in the home countries of many immigrant families in Europe , where women often have networks of friends and relatives to rely on . The danger with allowing arranged marriages to happen in EU countries are that the women at the centre are often far more vulnerable , away from their own family , unfamiliar with the local language and fully reliant on their husbands family . This makes it easier for domestic abuses to go undetected which is simply compounding problems of underreporting . It is therefore likely that there is more domestic violence within arranged marriages . This is shown even amongst women who still consented to arranged marriages but faced abuse from their husbands such as with the case of Razia Sodagar , whose husband abandoned her for another woman after she failed to fall pregnant . This illustrates how it is not always easy to draw a clear division between arranged marriages and forced marriages , as the former can often bear the same characteristics as the latter . It would therefore be safer to outlaw both . Ethnic domestic violence hidden , , 20 September 2007 , Gotrik , Jennifer , India domestic abuse more common in arranged marriages , , 12 September 2011 , Fighting Arranged Marriage Abuse , BBC , 12 July 1999 - 	Women in arranged marriages in Europe are disproportionately likely to suffer abuse
First , the sanction after three warnings can be tailored to fit general notions of justice , the punishment need not be severe and could fit the crime : maybe a consumer would be cut off of the internet for only two weeks , or only cut off from accessing download sites but still be allowed to access government and banking sites , or receive a small fine . Secondly , the consumer has ample time to change his or her behaviour : a consumer can insist on infringing copyright at least two times before the sanction takes place . The consumer can easily avoid being cut off -LRB- even temporarily -RRB- , meaning the punishment likely doesnt even have to take place . 	A graduated response is the fairest way to enforce copyright legislation
Research has shown that consumers are likely to stop downloading from unauthorized sources when warned by their ISP . For example : Seven out of ten -LRB- 72 % -RRB- UK music consumers would stop illegally downloading if told to do so by their ISP , and 90 per cent of consumers would stop illegally file-sharing after two warnings from their ISP . This shows that the threat of a possible disconnection together with a friendly warning is enough to stop most consumers from downloading from illegal source . The reasoning behind it is simple : consumers can now download without a cost , a graduated response mechanism first raises awareness scaring off those who are only casually downloading out of convenience and then heightens the expected cost of infringement and thus makes it more likely consumers will use legal sources . IFPI , . 2009 . URL for PDF : 	A graduated response will be an effective deterrent
Copyrighted material is intellectual property : someone worked hard for it to produce it . Downloading this content without paying the proper rights holder for it amounts to theft . Furthermore , downloading copyrighted material from an unauthorized source creates an impossible market for producers of copyrighted content , because they have to compete with free . Why would the average consumer want to pay for a download from an authorized website , when she can get the same movie from a pirate-site for free ? To build a commercially viable content industry online , we need to protect this industry from the unfair competition of the parallel market . 	The unauthorised downloading of copyrighted material should be addressed and prevented by the state
As the anthropologist and lawyer Sally Falk-Moore observed law is only ever a piecemeal intervention by the state in the life of society . Laws are , ultimately , social norms that are taught , enforced and arbitrated on by the state . The value of these norms is such that they are deemed to be a vital part of a societys identity and the state is entrusted with their protection . However , this ideal can be difficult to achieve . Debate as to which norms the state should be custodian of is constant . Where there is a disconnect between a law and the daily lives , aspirations and struggles of a society , it becomes unlikely that that law will be complied with . Generally , a state will not be able to give a pronouncement the force of law if it does not reflect the values held by a majority of a society . Compliance with the law can be even harder to obtain in highly plural societies . Even in plural societies ruled peacefully by an effective central government -LRB- such as India -RRB- , communities conceptions of childrens rights may be radically different from those set down in law . The Indian child marriage restraint act has been in force since 1929 , but the practice remains endemic in southern India to this day . Governments can attempt to enforce compliance with a law , through education , incentives or deterrence . What if the state that is intended to mount the piecemeal intervention of banning the use of child soldiers is weak , corrupt or non-existent ? What if a state can not carry out structured interventions of the type described above ? Norms that state that the conscription of children is acceptable - due to tradition or need - will be dominant . Situations of this type will be the rule rather than the exception in underdeveloped states and states where conflict is so rife that children have become participants in warfare . The ICC has jurisdiction to prosecute individuals with command over military units who use children as combatants , but how should the concept of a commander be defined in these circumstances ? In order for the juristic principles underlying the authority of the ICC to function properly , it is necessary for there to be a degree of certainty and accessibility underlying laws promulgated by a state . While ignorance of the law is not a defence before the ICC , it impossible to call a system of law fair or just that is not overseen by a stable or accepted government . This is not possible if a state is so corrupt that it does not command the trust of its people ; if a state is so poor that it can not afford to operate an open , reliable and transparent court and advocacy system ; if territory with a states borders is occupied by an armed aggressor . Western notions of rule-of-law are almost impossible to enforce under such conditions . All of these are scenarios encountered frequently in Africa , and central and southern Asia . Some regions within developing nations are so isolated from the influence of the state , or so heavily contested in internecine conflicts , that communities living within them can not be expected to know that the state nominally responsible for them has signed the Convention of the Rights of The Child or the Rome Statute . Nor can the state attempt to inform them of this fact . Laws still exist and are enforced within such communities , but these are not state-made forms of law . For an individual living within a community of the type described above - an individual living in the DRC , in pre-secession South Sudan or an ethnic minority enclave on the border of Myanmar - the question is a simple one . Does the most immediate source of authority and protection within his world - his community - condone the role that children play in armed conflict ? He should not be made liable for abiding by laws and norms that have sprung up to fill a void created by a weak or corrupt central state . There is little hope that he will ever be able to access the counter-point that state sponsored education and engagement could provide . Child soldiers and their commanders are simply obeying the strongest , the most effective and the most stable source of law in their immediate environment . 	The failure of rule of law
It can easily be conceded , without weakening the resolution , that war and combat are horrific , damaging experiences . Over the last seventy years , the international community has attempted to limit the suffering that follows the end of a conflict by giving soldiers and civilians access to medical and psychological care . This is now an accepted part of the practice of post-conflict reconstruction , referred to as Disarmament , Demobilisation and Reintegration -LRB- DDR -RRB- . The effects of chronic war and chronic engagement with war are best addressed by a slow and continuous process of habituation to normal life . Former child soldiers are sent to treatment centres specialising in this type of care in states such as Sierra Leone . What is harmful to this process of recovery is the branding of child soldiers as war criminals . The stigma attached to such a conviction would condemn hundreds of former child soldiers to suffering extended beyond the end of armed conflicts . Sentencing guidelines binding on the ICC state that anyone convicted of war crimes who is younger than eighteen should not be subject to a sentence of life imprisonment . Their treatment , once incarcerated , is required to be oriented toward rehabilitation . Many child soldiers become officers within the organisations that they join . Alternately , they might find themselves ordered to seek more recruits from their villages and communities . For these children participation in the conflict becomes participation in the crime itself . What began as a choice of necessity during war-time could , under the status quo , damage and stigmatise a child during peace-time . Even if their sentence emphasises reform and education , a former child soldier is likely to become an uninjured casualty of the war , marked out as complicit in acts of aggression . When labelled as such children will become vulnerable to reprisal attacks and entrenched social exclusion . Discussing attempts to foster former Colombian child combatants , the Coalition to Stop the Use of Child Soldiers state that , The stigmatization of child soldiers , frequently perceived as violent and threatening , meant that families were reluctant to receive former child soldiers . Those leaving the specialized care centres moved either to youth homes or youth protection facilities for those with special protection problems . While efforts continued to strengthen fostering and family-based care , approximately 60 per cent of those entering the DDR program were in institutional care in 2007 . Crucially , fear of being targeted by the ICC may lead former child soldiers to avoid disclosing their status to officials running demobilisation programs . They may be deterred from participating in the DDR process . Moreover , the authority of the ICC is often subject to criticism on the international stage by politicians and jurists linked to both democratic states and the non-liberal or authoritarian regimes most likely to become involved in conflicts that breach humanitarian law . It can not assist the claims of the ICC to be a body that represents universal concepts of compassion and justice if it is seen to target children - often barely in their teens - in the course of prosecuting war crimes . As the Child Soliders 2008 Global Report notes , Prosecutions should not , by focusing solely on the recruitment and use of child soldiers , exclude other crimes committed against children . Such an approach risks stigmatizing child soldiers and ignores the wider abuses experienced by children in conflict situations . It is on these grounds that some have questioned the exclusive child-soldier focus of the ICCs charges against Thomas Lubanga . After all , the Union of Congolese Patriots -LRB- UPC/L -RRB- , the armed group he led , is widely acknowledged to have committed numerous other serious crimes against children , as well as adults . 	Removing barriers to demobilisation , disarmament and rehabilitation
The jurisdiction of the ICC is primarily exercised according to culturally constructed assumptions about the way war works that there will be a clear division between aggressors and defenders , that armies will be organised according to chains of command , the civilians will not be targeted and will be evacuated from conflict zones . But countless conflicts in Africa and central Asia have proven these assumptions to be flawed . It should not be forgotten that almost all formulations of this motion define cultural relativism only as a defence to the use of child soldiers . It will still be open for ICC prosecutors to prove that the use of child soldiers has been systematic , pernicious and deliberate , rather than the product of uncertainty , necessity and unstable legal norms . Moreover , not all defences are complete defences ; they do not all result in acquittal , and are often used by judges to mitigate the harshness of certain sentences . It can be argued that it was never intended for the ICC to enforce laws relating to child soldiers against other children or leaders of vulnerable communities who acted under the duress of circumstances . At the very least , those responsible for arming children in these circumstances should face a more lenient sentence than a better-resourced state body that used child soldiers as a matter of policy . Due to the nature of conflicts in developing nations , where the geographic influence of recognised governments is limited , and multiple local law-making bodies may contribute to an armed struggle , it is difficult for the international community to directly oversee combat itself . United Nations troops are often underfunded , unmotivated and poorly trained , being sourced primarily from the same continent as the belligerent parties in a conflict . When peacekeepers are deployed from western nations , their rules of engagement have previously prevented robust protection of civilian populations . Ironically , this is partly the result of concerns that western states might be accused of indulging in neo-colonialism . It is outrageous for the international community to dictate standards of war-time conduct to communities and states unable to enforce them , while withholding the assistance and expertise that might allow them to do so . Therefore , the ICC , as a specialist legal and investigative body , should be encouraged to use the expertise it has accumulated to distinguish between child military participation driven by a desire to terrorise populations or quickly reinforce armies , and child military participation that has arisen as a survival strategy . 	The cultural construction of armed conflict
The issues underlying all debates on child soldiers go to the very heart of intercultural justice , politics and governance . International and supranational legislation notwithstanding , the notion that children should be protected from all forms of violence at any cost is expressly western . The facts stated in the introduction are not sufficient to support the creation of a defence of cultural relativism to charges of recruiting and using child soldiers . Cultures are not simply sets of practices defined by history and tradition . They are also methods of living , of survival and of ordering societies that change and develop in response to societies environments . Within many communities , children are inducted -LRB- or induct themselves -RRB- into military organisations as a result of necessity . The traditional providers of physical safety within a society may have been killed or displaced by war . Communities left vulnerable by long running and vaguely defined conflicts may have no other option but to begin arming their children , in order to help them avoid violent exploitation . A great many child soldiers in South Sudan actively sought out units of the rebel army known to accept child recruits . Following the death of parents and the dispersal of extended families , children gravitated towards known sources of safety and strength organisations capable of providing protection and independence within nations utterly distorted and ruined by conflict . Western notions of inviolate childhood , free of worry and violence , are merely a cultural construct . This construct can not be duplicated in societies beset by forms of privation and conflict that have been alien to western liberal democracies for the last seventy years . Attempting to enforce this construct as law - and as a form of law that can trump domestic legislation - endangers vulnerable communities , inhibits the creation of democratic norms and can even criminalise the children it claims to protect . 	Cultural relativism and adapting to conflict
The large water reservoirs created by hydroelectric dams can provide facilities for water sports and can become tourist attractions themselves . The reservoirs can be used for irrigation to help farmers and can be a means for flood control . A prime example of this is the Tennessee Valley Authority , an organisation responsible for flood control , electricity generation , economic development and even fertilizer generation in the Tennessee Valley in the U.S. , spanning parts of Alabama , Mississippi , Kentucky , Georgia , North Carolina and Virginia . 	Hydroelectric dams can be used to provide flood control and irrigation
In 2010 , about 1.4 billion people had no access to electricity . Hydropower provides a source of energy that is cheaper even than conventional coal . Large dams can last for over a hundred years and are easy to switch on and off according to demand , making them very cost-effective . Given that having no access to electricity makes work and study nearly impossible , alleviating global poverty by giving access to electricity is an important step to take . 	Hydroelectric dams provide cheap access to renewable energy
Hydroelectric dams burn no fossil fuels so emit no greenhouse gasses at all in producing energy . Suppose we replace all coal fired power stations with hydroelectric power stations . In 2010 , over 42 % of global electricity production was produced through coal , accounting for over 28 % of global carbon dioxide emissions . Since there is more than enough potential capacity for hydropower , we could hypothetically completely replace coal and even other fossil fuels for electricity , thus helping cut down greenhouse gas emissions massively . 	Hydro electric dams reduce carbon dioxide emissions
Profiling takes account of many more characteristics than an individuals ethnicity . Targeted checks would have caught , for example , the so called Christmas Day Bomber . Individuals who pay in cash for a one way flight while carrying no luggage , as Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab did , are a fairly small group and it makes sense to target them . Profiling is a great deal more subtle than a decision to target a single ethnic group . It is entirely possible to identify patterns in the behaviour of terrorists , drug mules and smugglers , and to respond to that accordingly . Obviously , the more refined the profile can be , the better . It is incredibly unlikely that an affluent , Caucasian businessman with a return ticket for the following day is either a suicide bomber or a drug smuggler . Both common sense and statistics show this to be the case . 	Profiling would have caught many of the perpetrators of terrorism in recent years .
Israel has been using profiling for decades to identify those individuals at airports that should be stopped , questioned and have their luggage thoroughly checked . Despite the massive threats that Israel faces , the Israeli state does not feel the need to invade the privacy of most passengers because they simply know what and who they are looking for . This approach has meant that , despite high odds , hijackings and bombings are not the routine affairs on El Al flights that one might expect it to be . As the focus for terrorist atrocities has now become the US and the UK , it simply makes sense to follow the example of a nation that has been such a target since its creation . 	The experience of Israel proves that profiling works
The reality is that all of the major terrorist attacks against Western targets in recent years have been perpetrated by young , Muslim men . It doesnt require any prejudice at all to realise that they are the most sensible group to check and recheck . Although it is important to respect peoples rights and liberties regardless of ethnicity or religious belief , a sensible security policy must force police officers and security officials to make decisions based on factual information . Everybody - including most members of the groups identified by profiling - has an interest in not being blown up on an aeroplane . They will , therefore , accept that this is a regrettable necessity . Airport staff can only stop so many people and it makes sense to target groups that terrorists are likely to be part of . 	When you know terrorists are likely to be members of particular national and ethnic groups , it is simply more practical to focus searches on those groups .
Teaching salaries for years have remained steady or even declined . This made teaching as a job unattractive and so the influx of new , talented teachers halted . Although the effect of fiscal changes on teachers pay has been minimal -LRB- controlling for the consequences of the financial crisis -RRB- , high productivity has become central to many private sector pay schemes . As a result , the contrast between non-responsive pay for teachers and high rewards for talented private sector employees has become more pronounced . With the opportunity to increase income through performance , teacher pay can rise , making it a more attractive profession financially . 	It will attract more teachers
Just as in the private sector , workers should be judged and rewarded on the actual results they achieve . Whether it 's through sheer talent or through hard work , some teachers consistently deliver better results than other teachers . Those teachers are more effective and efficient at providing societal value : with the same amount of work-hours they manage to more effectively educate children . It is therefore only just that their pay is differentiated according to the results they achieve . 	It is fair to reward teachers on the actual results they achieve .
Measuring teachers ' performances will create a transparent market for teaching talent . Underperforming teachers will be selected out because they are less in demand , unless they adapt and learn from what their competitors apparently do better . So , the overall quality of the teacher pool will rise and this will increase the quality of education for all students . 	Competition improves the overall quality of education .
For decades now , teachers have been remunerated based on ` seniority ' . This means that they do n't have an incentive anymore to improve themselves , no matter how motivated they were at the beginning . Why try to improve yourself if you have nothing to gain from it ? Adding a financial reward for exceptional performance will motivate teachers to do their utmost to develop the knowledge and talents of their pupils . 	It will give teachers an incentive to improve their teaching .
Under the electoral college , all votes do not count equally . Voters in some states have more say in selecting the president than voters in other states . For example , California has 55 electoral college votes , while Delaware only get 3 votes . There is not equality in that , every state should be equal , California for voting purposes is no more important that Delaware . 	The electoral college violates the democratic principle of equality in voting .
In 1824 , 1876 , 1888 , 2000 , and probably 1960 , the candidate receiving the most votes for president lost the election . This occurs because all but two states award all their electoral votes to the candidate winning a plurality in the state ; because all states receive two electoral votes corresponding to their two US senators ; because the number of House seats -LRB- which serve as the basis of the remaining electoral votes -RRB- often poorly match the population of the state ; because states cast electoral votes no matter how many people actually vote ; and because the size of the House is arbitrary . Factcheck.org , Presidents Winning Without Popular Vote , Annenberg Public Policy Center , 24 March 2008 , 	The electoral college violates the democratic principle that the winner should be the candidate receiving the most votes .
In 2000 , Ralph Nader siphoned a few votes from Al Gore in New Hampshire and Florida , costing Gore victories and thus the election . Nevertheless , Gore was the preferred choice of voters in a match up with George W. Bush . 	The electoral college allows small third parties to tip the balance in a state and distort the preferences of the voters .
This provision allows the 7 smallest states with a population of about 4.9 million to outvote the 6 largest states with a population of 119 million . This is blatently unfair . 	If no candidate receives a majority of the electoral vote , the House of Representatives chooses the president , with each state receiving one vote .
There is no incentive for candidates to mobilize voters in states they are sure to win or sure to lose , and voters have little incentive to vote in noncompetitive states where their vote is likely not to matter . Some states like Texas just have a fairly predictable voting record - they have voted republican 9 out of the last 10 presidential elections . Democratic presidential candidates do not spend much time in Texas for that reason . 	The electoral college weakens incentives for voting and party building .
Many of the rehabilitation and intervention schemes made available in prison are replicated in community settings by social services and charities . The cost of delivering these programmes in prison originates from the concept of prison itself . The expense of building , equipping , staffing and monitoring a prison vastly outweighs the cost of rehabilitative activities . Research conducted by Steve Aos has shown that rehabilitative programs designed to reduce crime can be cost-effective . Prisons should be used only where the imperative to protect society from criminal behaviour can not be met by the imperative to rehabilitate . A minority of offenders will be incorrigibly violent and uncontrollable , but under the status quo , these dangerous offenders not represent the majority of the prison population -LRB- see statistics above -RRB- . The yearly cost of incarcerating a young offender in the UK is now 140,000 , almost three times the annual fee charged by an elite public school . Diverting this money to intervention programmes delivered to families , in homes and in schools would avoid the harms of incarceration -LRB- described above -RRB- , while retaining the benefit of rehabilitation . The focus should therefore be prevention and early intervention rather than punishment . 	Incarceration is expensive , rehabilitation is not
Since becoming operational in March 2003 the ICC has only had one case resulting in a conviction and it is currently being appealed . Despite being found guilty of the war crime of recruiting and forcing child soldiers to fight and kill , Thomas Lubanga was sentenced to just 14 years imprisonment . Lubanga was arrested and sent to the Court in March 2006 . This single ICC conviction and the light sentence imposed are hardly sufficient to deter other warlords from using child soldiers . Six years later , in the same country where Lubangas crimes occurred , thousands of child soldiers are being recruited by various armed groups . 	In the decade since its formation , the ICC has only one successful conviction
While the ICC has the power to issue arrest warrants , it does not have the coercive powers to ensure that those warrants are followed . Despite the fact that States that are parties to the Rome Statute are obliged to co-operate with the directions of the Court , there have been many instances where such States have failed to pursue those indicted . Cases that have been referred to the ICC by the United Nations Security Council allows the Court to extend its jurisdiction to include UN member States that are not parties to the Rome Statute . This enabled the ICC to issue an international warrant for the arrest of Sudans President Al-Bashir . Yet several of these countries obliged to arrest him have refused when the opportunities have arisen . Rothe & Collins , pp.198-9 	The ICC lacks the power to ensure arrests
By prosecuting only those leaders deemed most responsible for the crimes in question , the ICC is effectively allowing lower-ranked perpetrators to commit crimes with impunity . These rank and file troops generally have little awareness or understanding of international criminal laws . Furthermore , just as local domestic laws fail to deter offenders who often commit crimes with little thought of being punished , distant ICC threats are even less likely to deter those whose actions are easily manipulated and controlled by militia leaders . Child soldiers , in particular , have often been drugged before going into combat . Mullins & Rothe , pp.782-4 	As the ICC intentionally limits its prosecutions to group leaders , many of those who actually commit atrocities need have no fear of prosecution
Standardized tests are inherently skewed in favour of high-income students.Tutoring is and industry unto itself and the resulting rise in scores among high income students skews the scale against students whose families can not afford it . By contrast , even if the money is available , the impact that tutoring can have on a students academic performance is limited . A tutor can not write papers or take tests for them , and nor can they answer questions in class , or participate in sports or other extracurricular activities . As a consequence , eliminating easily tutored standardized tests helps even the playing field between richer and poorer students . 	Standardized Tests are skewed in favour of the wealthy
The importance attached to such tests leads to teachers actively teaching the test.The result is that many teachers , rather than instilling useful skills or providing a balanced curriculum , end up trying to focus on things that occur on given tests . While this is not a huge problem with the SAT itself , it is a serious problem with subject tests like the SAT 2s , AP Exams , and the British A-Levels . This undermines the provision of education in the country . 	Standardized tests result in teachers teaching the test
Most tests were designed in an earlier era when far fewer students took them.The large number of students who now take tests like the SATs results in a situation in which the scoring scale magnifies small differences in performance into large differences in scores . Two questions wrong out of 80 on the math section of the SAT may well produce a score of 760 while three questions wrong will result in a 720 . 40 points can mean difference between admission and rejection for many candidates , while telling us nothing about the different abilities of the students involved . Indeed on average for 88 % of applicants their SAT score will predict their final college grade rank no more accurately than a pair of dice . Elert , Glenn , The SAT Aptitude of Demographics ? , 5 May 1992 , 	Standardized tests exaggerate small differences in performance
Minority students perform less well on tests like the SAT , even when correction is made for income.The test with its reading comprehension test and being done in English is obviously biased against students from households where English is not the dominant language as they are much less likely to understand the questions . Even when English language skills are not a problem the question choice can contain a cultural bias . One analogy question on the 2003 SAT used the word regatta which minority students were unlikely to be familiar with . Having this kind of bias is obviously unfair and can never be fully accounted for in a diverse country such as the United States of America where those who set the wording of the questions will never know all possible perspectives . 	Standardized tests discriminate against minorities
A law degree is first and foremost a requirement of being a lawyer . Anyone with any interest in working in the legal field , serving as a judge , or even working in a number of governmental and non-profit fields will quite simply need to attend law school at some point . If you are already a recipient of such a degree , it will increase the opportunities for advancement within your chosen career . 	You need a legal qualification to be a lawyer
Law school is a good way to spend your time and wait out the bad economy . By the time a law degree has run its course , the economy will have improved , and you will have a lot more options available , whether you still want to be a lawyer or not . Indeed , the UK based law school BPP has previously advertised its courses as a recession proof investment , arguing that returns , in terms of wages , on an individuals course fees could potentially be greater than equities or risky financial instruments . 	Law School provides a safe haven from which to wait out a bad economy .
Lawyers are often extremely high paid , and occupy a prestigious position in society . A law degree is key to entry to the top tier of society and high income earners . 	Admissions tests such as the LNAT exaggerate small differences in performance
A JD is not simply a gateway to the legal world . Lawyers work as corporate executives , run movie studios , hold political office , and teach academically . Holding the degree will increase your qualifications , and make it far easier to move up the ladder in whatever field you chose to enter even if it is not a legal one . 	A legal qualification is a gateway to a number of different career paths .
Law Schools teaches you to think more critically , and legal work offers the opportunity to engage in a largely intellectual pursuit with other highly intellectual individuals . Law students are likely to develop a wider range of intellectual skills throughout their careers , and will be better able to transition in to different jobs and different areas of the legal industry if needed . Moreover , the level of enjoyment that individuals derive from their jobs - and thus the nature of the hedonic calculus that they engage in when determining whether a particular job will fully account for their needs - is linked partly to the variety and difficulty of the tasks they must accomplish . Law represents a sustained and engaging intellectual challenge , and a challenge ideally suited to the skills of most humanities graduates . 	Law school helps graduates to think more clearly making them more attractive to other employers .
Unlike most other forms of charity , sponsorship creates a direct link between the person giving money and the person receiving it . People are able to see the ways in which their money is helping others , and this makes them feel good about it as World Vision International says - You get to see and feel the difference your support makes '' -LSB- 12 -RSB- . Although this is probably not the best reason for people to give their money to those in need , practically speaking -LRB- in the real world -RRB- it is one of the most effective -LRB- it works very well -RRB- in encouraging people to give . 	Sponsorship is a good way of getting people who otherwise would n't give to charity to donate their money .
This includes drinking water , food , education , medical care , shelter and sanitation - often charitable donations are more specific -LRB- they only provide for one of these aspects of life -RRB- . By putting children at the heart of charity programs it is hoped that a stronger foundation will be made for the future - the young people who are helped today can maintain a better lifestyle in the future -LSB- 8 -RSB- . Giving all this to an individual child also produces more tangible results than giving to a vast organisation , whose work is can often over-ambitious and more open to corruption -LSB- 9 -RSB- . 	Sponsorship also contributes to all aspects of life .
Over the years $ 30 a month , or perhaps even more , adds up to thousands of dollars worth of aid spending - this is different to other forms of charity because the main focus here is on long-term changes '' -LSB- 2 -RSB- . Unlike a one-off donation , this method of giving ensures that poor people get support for a long time without costing people too much in one go . It also ensures that people keep giving to these needy causes , and makes people realise that they can afford to make a difference . 	Sponsorship is better than other kinds of charity because it is a long term commitment .
Personal letters , charity reports , photographs and even visits help to build a bridge between the developed and developing world -LSB- 5 -RSB- . More and more people are able to talk to each other around the world , and it is important that less fortunate people in poor countries are connected to the rest of us and have the opportunity to communicate with us . Sponsorship creates a personal connection - the children get to learn about their sponsors and the sponsors get to learn how their money helps people . This continued attention to the positive effects of sponsorship is really important to help poorer countries , especially at a time when worldwide economics are in trouble and charities are most at risk from begin forgotten -LSB- 6 -RSB- . 	Child sponsorship brings about greater understanding between people from different countries and cultures .
Global free trade is or should be the aim of all countries . Unions such as ASEAN encourage their members to turn inwards , replacing the traditional narrow-minded nationalist vision with a regionalist closed-mind mentality . The consequence has been a lack of economic integration , revealed in the slow growth of intra-ASEAN trade . From the inception of the ASEAN Free Trade Area -LRB- AFTA -RRB- in 1993 until 2002 , intra-ASEAN trade as a share of all exports only increased from 21.14 percent to 22.75 percent . Even these figures do not tell the whole story . Much of this intra-ASEAN trade is , in reality , intra-firm tradethe transfer of unfinished goods between various production sites of transnational companies in the region , with the final intended market being the major economies . -LSB- 1 -RSB- They may also offer a false sense of participation in the international economic sphere when the great leap to world trade is at last a possibility . -LSB- 1 -RSB- Roberts , John . ` ASEANs problems on display at Bali summit ' , 30/10/2003 , 	ASEAN encourages its members to turn to their inward markets .
Allowing Burma to join ASEAN seemed to signal approval of that regime 's record on human rights . The forum often offers a shield for Myanmar 's regime -LRB- `` Burma , also known as Myanmar , is ruled by a military junta which suppresses almost all dissent and wields absolute power in the face of international condemnation and sanctions . '' -RRB- from external criticism . ASEAN has taken Burma in as a member and taking an approach of ` constructive engagement ' however this prevents any member from speaking out on Burmese human rights abuses , even should they wish too . Constructive engagement ' means that ASEAN hoped that peaceful change would be made by the Junta if ASEAN offered incentives , burma would slowly be changed by membership . This creates the difficulty that once they are members such states expect to be protected by ASEAN 's norms , damaging ASEAN in the eyes of the rest of the world . Other regimes conduct questionable -LRB- at best -RRB- policies , such as Thailand 's treatment of the Karen or Indonesia 's approach in the past inAceh or East Timor , but go uncriticised . Moller , ` Burma ' , p. 1102 . 	ASEAN governments conduct questionable policies but go uncriticised .
ASEAN is a total waste of time . It is expensive and it diverts attention from the proper efforts of members governments pursuit of the national interest . It is yet another unnecessary talking shop . Members frequently disagree with one another -LRB- on important international relations issues like the war on Iraq , and on regional economic issues like labour laws -RRB- , so the idea that it helps present a united front is incorrect - Yet , the `` new '' ASEAN looks a lot like the old one : united more in word than reality . If its divisions are not bridged and ASEAN does not become a vehicle for real action , the charter may prove to be ASEAN 's tombstone rather than its future blueprint . -LSB- 1 -RSB- Its institutions involve surprisingly high costs -LRB- especially high when they dont achieve anything -RRB- but still complain of under-resourcing ; members are unwilling to commit any more funds , so nobody is happy . Best to scrap it . -LSB- 1 -RSB- '' New ' ASEAN , old problems ' , 5/03/2009 , 	ASEAN creates too many problems and does not work properly .
Expansion has undermined the economic solidity of the Association . Members whose economies are unsound have been admitted for political reasons The older members of ASEAN shared common values and an antipathy to Communism . Those values had been muddied by the new members , and their economic and social problems made it doubtful they would ever behave like the older ASEAN members , -LSB- former Prime Minister of Singapore -RSB- Lee argued . -LSB- 1 -RSB- Lee also said he was wary about some members of the Association of South-East Asian Nations -LRB- ASEAN -RRB- , noting that Myanmar , Cambodia , Laos and Vietnam should not have been accepted . -LSB- 2 -RSB- ASEAN members still consider the benefits of ASEAN in realist terms , that cooperation brings greater bargaining power rather than in liberal terms of deepening the bonds between members . -LSB- 3 -RSB- Therefore rather than joining for economic engagement Vietnams main motivation was that the loss of its external support in the form of the USSR meant it needed ASEAN to balance against China . -LSB- 4 -RSB- This expansion of ASEAN has had negative effects in creating divisions within the organization with in what is a consensus based system the result of stagnation . -LSB- 1 -RSB- Lee Kuan Yew . ` ASEAN should not have admitted Burma , Cambodia , Laos and Vietnam ' ,17 / 12/2010 . -LSB- 2 -RSB- WikiLeaks . ` Singapore 's Lee Kuan Yew disdains Myanmar leaders ' , 15/12/2010 , -LSB- 3 -RSB- Kay Moller , Cambodia and Burma , the ASEAN way stops here , Asian Survey , Vol . 38 , No . 12 . -LRB- Dec. , 1998 -RRB- , pp . 1087-1104 . p. 1101 . -LSB- 4 -RSB- Barry Buzan , Security architecture in Asia : the interplay of regional and global levels , The Pacific Review , Vol .16 , No . 2 , -LRB- 2003 -RRB- , pp.143-173 , p. 154 . 	Expansion has undermined the economic solidity of the Association .
The use of child curfews can help to protect vulnerable children . Although responsible parents do not let young children out in the streets after dark , not all parents are responsible and inevitably their children suffer , both from crime and in accidents , and are likely to fall into bad habits . Sir Ian Blair former chief commissioner of the Metropolitan police argued that curfews were aimed at safeguarding youngsters and stopping gangs causing trouble . Society should ensure that such neglected children are returned home safely and that their parents are made to face up to their responsibilities . 1 . 	Curfews also have an important role in the protection of vulnerable children .
Youth crime is a major and growing problem , often involving both drugs and violence . Particularly worrying is the rise of youth gangs who can terrorise urban areas and create a social climate in which criminality becomes a norm . Imposing youth curfews can help to solve these problems , as they keep young people off the street , and therefore out of trouble , and prevent them from congregating in the hours of darkness . Police in Philadelphia have found curfews effective in the prevention of gang violence : the measure has been successful in helping to curb violent attacks by teen mobs that had severely injured several people in recent months , city officials said . 	The main objective of curfews is usually crime prevention .
Other schemes aimed at reducing youth crime are highly effective but work best in conjunction with curfews . As the National Crime Prevention Council states : A curfew alone wont stop crime . More preventive measures , including recreational activities and job opportunities , are needed to reach out to young people and keep them from committing crimes . In areas with a whole culture of lawlessness a curfew takes the basically law-abiding majority off the streets , allowing the police to engage with the most difficult element . Curfews are a tool in the struggle to improve lives in run-down areas ; they often used for relatively short periods of a few weeks or months in order to bring a situation under control so that other measures can be put in place and given a chance to work . 	Curfews are most effective when used a short-term aid to other policing measures .
There is no good reason for children to be out unaccompanied late at night , so a curfew is not really a restriction upon their liberty . Where the child does have good reasons to be out they can be covered by the exceptions . They would be better off at home doing schoolwork , schools often set more than an hour a night which the children should be doing . The time would also be better spent interacting with the rest of their family . 	It is best for children to be at home in the evening .
Militaries provide a public service that too often goes unnoticed and underappreciated ; school visits raise the level of understanding for the important job they do . In the UK the army publicly states that it does not directly recruit in schools but does visit many each year `` with the aim of raising the general awareness of the armed forces in society '' They always visit by invitation of the Head teacher . Compared to the USA fewer young people have local or family connections with the military , so it is important for them to learn about the role the armed forces play in our country . And in both the UK and the USA the military offers other services to schools , from educational materials to leadership courses and team-building exercises . Sgt . Maj. Jerome DeJean , of the U.S. Army 's 2nd Recruiting Brigade , describes their role as ' a partner in education 	The purpose of the military entering schools is not solely recruitment but awareness
Young people are not stupid they know that there are risks involved in joining the military . In fact the media usually focuses on the bad news coming out of Afghanistan and Iraq , ignoring the good work of our military there . A career in the military also offers young people a lot of benefits , and it is only right that they should get to hear about those as well . As Donald Rumsfeld noted , for some of our -LRB- US -RRB- students , this may be the best opportunity they have to get a college education . In addition , no one is signed up on the spot in the classroom ; they always get the chance to think about it over a few months or more , and to discuss the decision carefully with parents and peers . As such , military recruitment in schools should be seen as no less unethical than the visits to schools of policemen , for whom there is similar risk but little public conjecture . Vlahos , K. B . -LRB- 2005 , June 23 -RRB- . Heavy military recruitment at high schools irks some parents . Retrieved May 18 , 2011 , from Fox News : 	Young people are aware of the risks of military service and therefore would not be easily misled by military personnel
The relationship between the state and the schools that it establishes and funds goes both ways ; if schools accept state funding , the state is entitled to use schools as a platform for the military to appeal to future recruits . All state-funded schools , irrespective of location and student demographics but only high schools , would be expected to accept military recruiters once a year to speak to the entire student body . The event would be a condition of further funding for the school , however there would be no limits placed on a minimum number of students that needed to enlist as a result . 	All high schools accepting state funding should accept military recruiters once a year
School children are entitled , as part of their education , to a wide range of careers information , including potential roles in the military . It is a school 's duty to offer not only paths to employment , but opportunities to engage with future employers like the military . With university places now increasingly competitive , schools must remain more vigilant than ever that they do not encourage purely academic paths to future careers . Furthermore , nationalism is a powerful factor in school curriculums worldwide , and permitting militaries into schools to talk to students is not an extension of already-permitted activities like the recital of the Lord 's Prayer in British state schools or the Pledge of Allegiance in American schools . As such , it comes as little surprise that the predominant reason given for enlistment is service to country . If schools are asked to ensure that such activities are carried out to foster national sentiment , it follows that military service should be , if not actively encouraged , respected sufficiently to grant the armed services an opportunity to engage with students . 	Young people should hear of the opportunities available in the armed services whilst in school
Our military is an all-volunteer force and must recruit openly to keep up its numbers . The army , navy and air force need well-educated and motivated recruits ; as the pool of potential recruits shrinks , efforts to attract young people must be permitted to ` intensify and diversify ' The alternative is a return to the conscription and national service that offers those recruits little choice . Military recruitment in schools permits the recruitment of only those with an interest in the armed forces , allowing those who wish to pursue other endeavours that opportunity . As such , visits to schools are not about forcing militaristic propaganda on children , but about making sure that 16-18 year olds know about the military as a potential career choice . After all , college representatives and local employers are allowed to make presentations to students , so it would be unfair to keep just the military out . If you accept that we need armed forces , then you must allow them to recruit openly . 	The military is an all-volunteer force and needs a percentage of school-age recruits each year
All political parties have seats that they consider safe and unlikely to lose . If a person in an inner city constituency that has a strong Labour history , wishes to vote for someone other than Labour , then their vote is effectively null and void . Labour will win a majority however they vote . The fact that the seat is so safe means that there is effectively very little effect people can have , resulting in thousands of people 's vote being wasted and having no effect when it comes to forming a government . In the 2010 UK general election the result was decided by less than 460,000 voters in only 111 constituencies . This gives an unfair amount of political influence to a tiny minority of the electorate while making the majority 's votes close to worthless . 	Safe seats will be reduced .
Adversarial democratic systems such as the United States , Britain and Australia have been becoming increasingly dysfunctional with politics simply being a shouting match . Coalition governments lead to cooperation and compromise between parties . Governments which are forced to acknowledge a wide range of public opinion are less likely to introduce policies which victimise minorities or ride roughshod over public opinion for ideological reasons ; for example , the poll tax in the UK , 1988-92 . Empirically , countries with PR systems , such as Germany , show that great prosperity can result from the policies of such governments . 	Coalition government is a good thing
PR results in more engagement in politics as every vote counts . Political participation is good and we should care about the low voter turnout in elections that has been caused by first past the post . Surveys show that that those who vote are more engaged in the community in other ways and have better personal wellbeing . Research in Switzerland has shown that voting does make people happier as well as being better informed citizens . The higher the stake the person has , and the more likely their vote is to count the more effort they will make to find out the facts so as to make informed choices . Marks et al . , 2005 , p5-6 	PR increases political engagement which benefits society .
The creation of a post of High Representative and Vice President of the Commission -LRB- HRVP -RRB- marks an important change in the decision making process at the EU level with regards to foreign policy . Agreement on the post showed a clear commitment to the pursuit of a common EU foreign policy and to developing a unique cooperative model for foreign and defense policy decision making that goes beyond the nation state . Member states should now deliver on that commitment by seeking as much common ground as possible to ensure that the High Representatives role is truly significant . The goal of a common foreign and security policy should thus be supported not only as a mechanism to streamline EUs position and role in world politics , but also to reinforce notions of cooperation and consultation essential for maintaining a stable international system , in line with the stated goals of the EU . -LRB- The 12 stars in a circle is meant to symbolize the ideals of unity , solidarity and harmony among the peoples of Europe -RRB- . 	The creation of the post of a High Representative marked an important change in the EU .
The EU has slowly been building up its own common military framework , with the UK and France leading the effort to pool European military capacity . In addition , the EU itself has created new institutional bodies such as the Political and Security Committee , a Military Committee and military staff . The EU has had military envoys in Macedonia and Bosnia-Herzegovina and has committed itself to the creation of a Common Security and Defense Policy with 3-4 ,000 troops on permanent standby in multilateral battlegroups ready for immediate deployment -LRB- see Rockwell Schnabels article listed below -RRB- . While incremental , these are steps not to be ignored . The Union has also placed that military capacity within the broader context of a security strategy designed to promote international peace , justice and development . 1 . 	The EU has already been unifying on multiple fronts , this is just a step in the same direction .
While the new EU High Representative for Foreign and Security Policy marks only a bold first step towards a more unified voice for the EU , the decisions are indeed still based on a state by state consultation mechanism hence the name representative . This should however not to be downplayed as a less significant change in how the EU approaches its foreign policy . The consultation aspect is in fact essential to reaching agreement and the importance of not only presenting a united front to the rest of the world -LRB- the EU is exemplary in trade policy and environmental policy , but less important when it comes to presenting a united voice in foreign policy as Belgian Foreign minister Mark Eyskens put it in 1991 Europe is an economic giant , a political dwarf , and a military worm , but also creating a united front through collaboration and debate . One should thus see this not only as a means to an end , but rather as an important mechanism in itself , whereby new identities are slowly created along with a deeper sense of commitment to a common set of values . 1 . Craig R Whitney , WAR IN THE GULF : EUROPE ; Gulf Fighting Shatters Europeans Fragile Unity , 	The fact that it is a Representative highlights the fact that the EU is based on consultation and consensus , and that is a positive thing .
The High Representative will not only act as a spokesman for EU nations when they agree on foreign policies , but will act as a catalyst around which external policy will increasingly become coordinated . By chairing meetings of EU foreign ministers , he or she will be able to shape the agenda and influence the outcomes of meetings , encouraging member states increasingly to think in terms of common foreign policy positions . They will have added authority from their ability to speak for the EU in the UN Security Council . The High Representative will also direct the EUs new External Action Service , which brings together policy specialists from both the Council and Commission in a unique manner -LRB- ranging from the Arctic region to nuclear safety and enlargement -RRB- . With representatives all over the world the EU will develop a foreign service capable of creating and articulating policy positions in a manner that few national governments can match . Over time this will promote the evolution of a true EU foreign and security policy , and will contribute significantly to increased European consciousness among EU citizens and further moves to political unity . 	The High Representative will be a catalyst and a facilitator for decision-making .
Biofuels are the best way of reducing our emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases responsible for global climate change . As with fossil fuels , burning biodiesel or ethanol to drive an engine or generate electricity releases carbon into the atmosphere . Unlike with fossil fuels , however , growing the plants from which biofuels are made takes carbon from the air , so overall the process is carbon neutral . This means policies to increase the use of biofuels could greatly reduce overall levels of carbon emissions , and so be a major part of tackling global climate change . Since the international community has made reducing climate change a priority , with different climate conferences like Copenhagen , seeking energy alternatives should be at the forefront of their efforts . Biofuels can also help improve local air quality as mixing ethanol with fossil fuels helps meet clean air standards , and overall be one of the tools used to reduce carbon emissions into the atmosphere . 	Biofuels are better for the environment .
The growth of biofuels will be good for farmers , both in the west and in the developed world . In the 1990s and early 2000s farmers in the developed world have produced more food than the market required , resulting in large surpluses and very low prices . A great many farmers were driven out of business as a result , and few young people wish to try to make a living from the land . Meanwhile , surplus grain from America and the EU has often been dumped on markets in the developing world , harming local farmers who are unable to compete . Both sorts of farmers stand to benefit from increased demand for biofuels , as farm incomes improve and market-distorting surpluses disappear . Taxpayers may also benefit as there will be less need to subsidize more prosperous farmers . Additionally , as more ethanol is produced , and consumption is incentivized , the prices will drop . Oil prices tend to fluctuate which can often have devastating impacts on the economy . Mixing ethanol with crude can contribute to overall decreasing the price of gasoline . With more energy coming from ethanol , high oil prices and instability around the world will have a weakened impact on economies . 	Biofuels are good for farmers and the economy .
The reliance of America and its western allies on conventional fossil fuels , chiefly oil , is a major security issue . Currently the United States must buy most of its oil from authoritarian and often hostile states such as Saudi Arabia , Venezuela and Iran , or from unstable places like Nigeria . 22 % of US oil comes from the Middle East , 22 % from Africa , and 19 % from Latin America . The past actions of OPEC and the recent willingness of Russia to use its supplies of natural gas to threaten European states both point to a need to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels . Oil prices often rise due to instability in the regions where it is produced , which has harmful impacts for consumers around the world . For example , in 2011 the invasion in Libya caused oil prices to rise because of fear of reduced oil production in the region The US and its allies lose leverage over many international actors as its hands are tied due to dependence on oil , as is the case with nuclear proliferation in Iran for example . The US Department of Agriculture determined that the US could produce enough biomass to meet 30 % of its energy needs , which in addition to other forms of alternative energy could make a significant impact on oil consumption . Increasing the use of biofuels can therefore contribute to our security by ensuring that more of our energy needs are met from within our own country , reducing our dependence on foreign suppliers . 	Biofuels help achieve energy independence
At present mankind is using up fossil fuel resources at an alarming rate , and often damaging the environment in order to extract them . If we go on relying on fossil fuels they will one day run out , and not only will our descendants no longer have viable energy reserves , but they will also have to cope with the ecological damage coal , oil and gas extraction have inflicted on the earth . Making fuel from crops provides a perfect , sustainable solution . Additionally , biofuels can be mixed with fossil fuels , and eventually replace them , without having to entirely change the infrastructure of countries . Other forms of alternative energy would call for new investment and development just to use them , whereas biofuels can slowly be introduced to cars in higher quantities , and gradually new cars will be designed to run entirely on biofuels . However , overturning the entire system would not be necessary , reducing the cost associated with using biofuels . Biofuels already have a great deal to offer today , but prospects for the future are even more exciting and deserve our support . New crops like Jatropha promise to produce much more energy from a given amount of land . They also flourish without annual replanting or chemical inputs on marginal land . In the longer term , bio-engineers are working on producing `` cellulosic '' biofuelsbiofuels in which the stems and leaves of plants or trees are used to produce ethanol , not just the fruits or seeds . Cellulosic biofuels would allow much more fuel to be produced from a given amount of land , and could also be made from the waste products of food or timber production , such as straw and woodchip . The future prospects for ethanol are great , and thus call for increased investment and development because only then will ethanol truly be a viable alternative . 	Biofuels are renewable and sustainable in the future .
Removing birthright citizenship will involve costly unintended consequences . A huge new federal bureaucracy will be needed to keep track of millions of residents who lack citizenship , but who can not be deported because they have no citizenship elsewhere either . As Tamar Jacoby points out ` these young people know no other home , many will never learn the language of their parents , and very few will even consider going back to the Old Country ' . It will be , as legal expert Margaret Stick notes , ' a bureaucratic nightmare ' requiring the hiring of ` thousands of lawyers to adjudicate people 's applications and figure out whether they are citizens or not ' . Furthermore , it may have wider effects in society . In the United States for example , ` the vast majority of people prove their citizenship through a birth certificate , and if that is no longer considered proof that you are an American citizen , they are going to have to come up with something else ' . In summary therefore , the costs of the removal of the birthright citizenship far exceed the likely benefits . 	Removing birthright citizenship would require increasingly costly bureaucratic measures
The national security of the state depends on shared values , norms and principles , factors that by definition can not be tested and massaged whilst immigrants hide in the shadows and refuse to come forward . Birthright citizenship encourages the assimilation of families and cultures as a whole into that of the state , forming not a homogeneity but a comfortable and restrained multiculturalism joined at the core by certain shared principles . As John McCain noted in a 2005 speech , we have a national interest in identifying individuals , incentivizing them to come forward out of the shadowsregularize their status . Therefore , to ensure that state derives the most it can out of its citizens , it is in their interest to give them citizenship at birth rather than turn a blind eye to the illegal underclass . 	Reducing the number of illegal immigrants is important for national security
Birthright citizenship has been a critical driver of integration for generations . For newly arrived immigrants , knowing that their children will have full citizenship has encouraged them to work hard , put down roots and invest in their new country . For their citizen children , knowing they have equal opportunities with all other young Americans has led them to work hard to achieve their dreams . As Tamar Jacoby of the Manhattan Institute argues , ` newcomers put down roots and invest all-out in their lives because they know their children will be guaranteed full membership ' . If birthright citizenship is removed , the process of integration will inevitably stutter . Over the years , many children born in America will end up without citizenship anywhere , including a third generation that has no links to any other state . 	Birthright citizenship drives the integration of new immigrants
Birthright citizenship prevents an increase in the number of illegal residents . As more children of current illegal aliens are denied citizenship , we will be creating a permanent , ` marginalized and undereducated ' underclass with few civil rights , likely to be alienated from our society but knowing no other homeland to which they could return . A recent Migration Policy Institute study found that the removal of birthright citizenship would lead to a 44 % increase in the illegal immigrant community . More illegal immigrants creates a hereditary poverty due to the understandable barriers to entry in the job market for non-citizens . Further to that , Jared Bernstein , a senior economist , argues that illegal immigrants are statistically poorer because they lack access to the economic advantages conferred by citizenship ; ` while 9.8 % of those naturalized are poor , the share for non-citizens is a whopping 21.6 % ' . To increase the amount of illegal immigrants with such statistics in mind would only serve to exacerbate the poverty of such groups and provide a sore for the state as a whole . 	The absence of birthright citizenship creates a permanent underclass of illegal aliens
A child has no choice where it is born , and the child of non-citizen parents should be recognized as a citizen just as much as the child born to those who can trace their citizenship back through many generations . The United States is famously a nation of immigrants , welcoming `` huddled masses yearning to breathe free '' on the Statue of Liberty . Unlike Germany or Japan , where ethnicity has traditionally been the criteria for citizenship , the USA is a melting-pot , uniting people of diverse origins under one flag . Throughout US history the children of non-citizens have been accepted as true Americans , paying taxes , being drafted and fighting for the flag in wartime , and being elected to office . As enshrined in the 14th Amendment of the U.S. Constitution , ` all persons born or naturalized in the United States , and subject to the jurisdiction thereof , are citizens of the United States ' . This is what America stands for , what made the nation great ; it is a proud history which should not be rejected . 	Citizenship should be tied to the land of birth
Most extra-curricular activities are physically active , getting the student out from behind their desk and making them try new things . Physical activity is extremely important for general health whilst ensuring that students are exposed to practical tasks , not just what is taught in class . Sports clubs and teams give students the opportunity to do physical exercise in an enjoyable environment whilst activities such as the Duke of Edinburgh award teach skills such as map reading and organisation of a group . The outcome of giving the extra-curriculum the same status as the curriculum will therefore be well balanced individuals . Schools have a pastoral duty to consider the well-being of their pupils which includes physical health and practical abilities . 	Extra-curricular activities have important health benefits .
Many children have talents in all sorts of different areas , and it is wrong to force them to specialise too early . ` Every child and young person is entitled to experience a broad general education ' Even if a student does not aim to be a professional musician they should still have opportunity to learn an instrument . A career is not the only , or most the important , part of an adult 's life school needs to make sure they have interests and skills that will help them in their family and leisure lives too . Through equal balancing of academic and extra-curriculum , however , the students have the chance to exercise their rights , learn a diverse range of skills and the opportunity to be multi-talented . 	Students have the right to be able to choose a broad education .
Boosting the place of the extra-curriculum in schools is one way of addressing a weakness in modern society , a lack of civil strength and community . Activities offered in schools are vital in providing opportunities to learn the diverse skills help to equip young people with the civic spirit , initiative and organising skills to set up their own clubs , teams and activity groups when they leave education . An article in The Guardian argues that ` The riots suggest that the education system must concern itself with a lot more than simple exam results ' . A successful extra-curriculum often depends on building links between the school and the wider community , bringing local enthusiasts in to work with students , and sending students out to work on community projects , help in primary schools , perform for local audiences , etc . . Thus , extra-curricular activities have wider social implications than the individual schools and pupils . 	Extra-curricular activities encourage interpersonal interactions that are good for building a strong civil society .
The normal curriculum can only go so far as to teach and educate students about academic theories . But students whose only experience of school or college is one of rigid academic study may not be able to apply what they have learned in practice . Extra curricular activities encourage a diverse range of skills and methods of learning that encompass the diverse needs of students . For example , schemes such as Young Enterprise allow students to experience of practical business skills and valuable communication and team work skills . If the extra-curriculum was given an equal footing in student life there will be an improvement in the student ability to grasp things as a whole , because students will have received a more rounded education . 	Extra-curricular activities provide children with a rounded education .
An important reason why people continuously turn to unhealthy , fat , sugar and salt laden food , is the simple fact that its often cheaper than a more wholesome meal comprised at least in part of fresh produce . A study done at the University of Washington found that when they compared the prices of 370 foods junk foods not only cost less but junk food prices are also less likely to rise as a result of inflation . A similar conclusion was reached by a group of Australian researchers , who found that the prices of healthy food have risen 20 per cent above inflation , while the harmful counterpart have actually dropped below inflation as much as 20 per cent below . Noting that obesity is more prevalent in groups of lower socioeconomic status , we find that the price of food is a substantial incentive for consumption . Thus it is only reasonable to levy a tax against unhealthy , fatty food in order to give healthy food a fighting chance . 	A fat tax levels out the playing field for healthier food
A sin tax is a term often used for fees tacked on to popular vices like drinking , gambling and smoking . Its roots have been traced back to the 16 century Vatican , where Pope Leo X taxed licensed prostitutes . More recently , and with greater success , US federal cigarette taxes were shown to have reduced consumption by 4 % for every 10 % increase in the price of cigarettes . Given the success achieved with uprooting this societal vice , which on a number of counts is similar to the unhealthy food one - immense health costs linked to a choice to consume a product we should employ this tried and true strategy to combat the obesity epidemic . In fact , a recent study published in the Archives of Internal Medicine followed 5000 people for 20 years , tracking food consumption and various biological metrics . The report states that Researchers found that , incremental increases in price of unhealthy foods resulted in incremental decreases in consumption . In other words , when junk food cost more , people ate it less . Thus leaning on the successful tradition of existing sin taxes and research that points out the potential for success of a similar solution in this arena , it should be concluded that a fat tax is an important part of a sensible and effective solution to the obesity epidemic . 	There is ample precedent in the form of other sin taxes
The obesity epidemic is taking an enormous toll on global medical costs . In the US alone the health care costs attributable to either direct or indirect consequences of obesity have been estimated at $ 147bn . Put into context , this amounts to roughly 9 % of the health spending in the US . The figure might seem excessive , but we need to remember that obesity is linked to Type 2 Diabetes , several kinds of cancer , coronary artery disease , stroke , congestive heart failure , asthma , chronic back pain and hypertension , to name just a few . We also need to realize that many of the diseases on this list are chronic in nature , requiring lifelong pharmacological therapy , which often follows complex and expensive diagnostic procedures , frequent medical specialist consultations , and not infrequent emergency interventions . Adding to the list is the value of income lost due to decreased productivity , restricted activity , and absenteeism , not to mention the value of future income lost by premature death . Thus it becomes increasingly clear that due to the substantial cost obesity presents to the society , individual choices that might lead to excessive weight gain , can no longer be considered as solely individual in nature . Therefore the government is legitimate in its action to introduce a form of a fat tax in order to try to dissuade the population from becoming obese and cover the increasing societal costs the already obese individuals are responsible for . 	An individual 's BMI is no longer a purely personal matter
When decision making regarding curriculum and standards occurs , local authority allows for more sensitivity to community needs . In the U.S. the authority of education was not stated but implied , in the 10 amendment to the U.S. Constitution , as left to the individual states . Each state was thus empowered to exercise local control over the business of education which then fell to individual school districts . This authority allows for each unique district to more appropriately respond to the educational needs of students . Local districts can adapt to the unique social cultural dynamics of their community and pursue more creativity in addressing educational issues which develop . According to Diane Ravitch , the states and school districts are more flexible and pragmatic about designing reform to meet the needs of particular schools due to their proximity to students , schools , teachers and parents . The National Education Association , a teachers association , in the U.S. supports more local control of public schools because of its ability to better address the education needs of students , teachers , and the community . 	Local control gives authority to localities to better meet the educational needs of students .
The right of a family is central in human societies . Parents are acknowledged to be responsible for childrens upbringing . Parental involvement is key to the educational success of children . Evidence of this responsibility and right which parents embrace is illustrated in the ever increasing citizen interest in school vouchers , home schooling , special magnet schools , free schools , and private schooling which allow for parental choice and involvement . Vouchers allow students to select schools . Home schooling allows for parents to oversee education and become teachers themselves . Special and private schools are designed to meet special needs parents envision for their children . Free schools in the United Kingdom are developing and gaining popularity . In 1991 , Sweden began a practice which allowed schools to be established by parents , teachers , charities and business . Additionally , parents often select to reside in a particular community or region because of the educational systems in place . Parents embrace their right and responsibility to be involved in their childrens education . 	Parents have a right to be involved in their childrens education
When the decision makers controlling education are from the local community , more accountability is possible . Local pressure can be brought upon school boards and school districts from the constituency they serve . Since students educational needs are of importance to families in a local community , those citizens have the right and responsibility to seek accountability from their local school districts . 	Local control provides more accountability in the educational system
All school systems must deal with the problems of providing schoolhouses , facilities , support staff and operating expenses . Since schools operate on budgets , local control allows for a better resource management . Financial decisions regarding funding the educational system can be more flexible when at the local level . Decisions related to the operation of schools can be made with better insight than those made by the federal government . Local citizens often pay taxes to support their schools and thus have a vested interested in the efficiency of their operation . 	Local control is more efficient in delivering education to students .
Before the financial crisis , housing prices were rising fast . Rather than stopping this trend , governments and financial institutions tried to adapt to and profit from it . To sustain soaring house prices , banks lent mortgages to people who could n't afford them , through so-called `` innovations , '' such as interest-only mortgages , 100 % mortgages and lending to people with poor credit histories . A subsequent rise in mortgage defaults left banks less willing to lend money . So , as mortgages have become more expensive , many people have been priced out of the market . It is unfair that first , homes became so unaffordable because of bad decisions by banks and , that second , the same banks are now lending mortgages to buy-to-let landlords , who are buying up houses to rent out to young people who , otherwise , would have been first-time buyers . Therefore , banks should be forced to lend money to young people trying to enter into the property market . 	Keeping housing prices artificially high caused the global recession , and would do so again .
Recently , Grant Shapps , the UK housing minister , headed a meeting at the Department for Communities and Local Government in order to persuade senior executives from Britain 's biggest home builders , estate agents , and mortgage lenders to engineer `` an age of aspiration , '' by helping more young people to buy their first homes . This soaring rhetoric implies the government 's underlying worry that , due to the current unaffordability of homes , social mobility is becoming more difficult . Such high house prices and strict lending criteria make a young person 's position in society dependent on the goodwill of affluent and generous parents to help them raise a deposit . This , of course , gives children born to a higher social class a lifetime advantage over peers from a poorer background . In a vicious cycle , richer children will grow up to own capital assets , including houses , which they will be able to pass on as inheritance to their offspring . It is an injustice that artificial barriers to entry , such as extortionate mortgages , prevent poorer young people from entering the housing market and leave them with nothing to show for a lifetime of paying rent . 	Unaffordable housing prices reduce social mobility .
There are several ways in which the government can make homes affordable . The most obvious is to encourage the building of cheap homes by ensuring that the newly built home can only be sold for a small profit over the cost of construction . At the moment developers prefer to build large houses or ` executive apartments ' that are not affordable because they do not cost much more to build than cheap homes yet sell for a much higher price so there is more profits . Capping the amount of profit developers could make out of the biggest homes would change the incentives to it being better to build a lot of small cheap houses . In 2004 John Prescott , then Deputy Prime Minister of the UK , challenged the construction to build homes for60 ,000 . The construction cost was ultimately higher at 85,000 however they sold or over 200,000 because the developers could sell at the market price 	Government can make homes affordable by increasing supply .
To buy a house in England , you need to earn31 ,000 per year . If you wish to buy a house in London , you need to earn 50,000 . These figures are much higher than the average income per person . In England the average annual wage is 20,000 , whilst in London it is 26,000 . This means that most young people will not be able to enter the housing market As house prices are high compared to income , most young people will not be able to buy a property unless they have a partner . This will force people into pragmaticbut artificialrelationships , and compel people to stay in these relationships for financial reasons , and this can not be socially ideal . 	Without affordable housing , first-time buyers are forced into unwise relationships .
A survey taken in 2003 which shows that English children take as much as three times longer to learn basics of the language than the European average . It seems that the main problem is the fact that there are illogical inconsistencies in spelling , pronunciation and meaning at a fundamental level in words that are essential in everyday use . Masha Bell suggests that the irregular spellings of common words like `` to , you , your , very , many '' are particularly noxious because they keep undermining the basic English spelling system and so make it harder for children to learn it . If we wish to improve child literacy across the board , there would potentially be a great economic benefit in the future , as a higher standard of consistency would reduce the burden on the education system and provide a more literate workforce . 	Simplifying the language could improve child literacy .
Changing the whole language is going to take a long time in order to make a complete change . Even if the all the English speaking nations agreed on a method of simplifying the language there would be millions who would need to unlearn some of what they were taught . The new simple form of English would be taught in schools so the next generation and subsequent generations would grow up knowing it . There would be a significant divergence in how different people spell many English words . However this would not be a problem as there are already many instances where different generations , or different regions spell or speak the same language in different ways . Indeed standardisation of spelling only dates from the 18 Century when Samuel Johnson published his . As such it should not pose a problem to have different the different formats of English operating alongside each other . 	Changing would not be difficult
English is the third largest language in the world in terms of the total number of native speakers . When the people who speak English as a second language are taken into account , it becomes by far and away the biggest language in the world - a fact that could easily change if English isnt made easier to learn for those who are not native speakers . Masha Bell once more suggests that Foreign learners can never be sure how to pronounce an English word without hearing it first , so in a period in which nations such as China and India are becoming more powerful economically than the likes of the USA and European nations , then changing to a more phonetic system would surely help maintain English as the main language of commerce . 	Making English easier would be especially beneficial to people learning English as a second language .
Research by the National Literacy Trust found that A key ingredient in determining future social class is language : the basic tool for thought , argument , reasoning and making sense of a confusing world . If language is such a key part of what makes up the class system , and people in general believe in equal opportunities and the eventual dissolution of that class system , then surely making the language more accessible to those who do not receive as good an education is a step in the direction of a fairer society . Those from affluent backgrounds are likely to hear , speak and be taught many more words in their formative years - making the language easier to learn for those who do not have this advantage is surely a good thing . 	Changing the language could have social benefits - it would remove a layer of class superiority which is presently judged by literacy .
Ultimately all news outlets report that which is of interest to their viewers . Where there is no interest or , more frequently , an active lack of interest , news outlet do not - and should not impose a particular set of judgements or interests on their customers . Doing so would arguably be patronizing and certainly be financial suicide . As a result they report what is both interesting and acceptable to those who consume the news and , for the vast majority of news outlets , the companies that advertise on the station , website or in the paper . Expecting news outlets to ignore those simple realities is asking them to self-destruct by ignoring their market . It is a clear example of sacrificing the good in the name of the best in the example given , the writer mentions that Al Jazeera covers stories relating to gay rights but does so on its English language channels . This exactly shows the market in action ; Al Jazeera English broadcasts mostly to a European audience who are not offended by reports on gay rights whereas Al Jazeera Arabic is geared towards a Middle Eastern audience and does not challenge cultural values or orthodox religion . Pellot , Brian , 2012 , -LRB- Not -RRB- reporting homosexuality in the Middle East , , Krajnc , Anita , Al Jazeera Arabic ignores gay news , , 2 August 2010 , 	Where there is a clear objection to discussing a certain subject , insisting on doing so is not news , its propaganda .
Journalists and editors use their judgement all the time on what is acceptable to print or broadcast . Expletives or graphic images of violence or sex are routinely prevented because they would cause offence , giving personal details might cause distress and are omitted as a courtesy , and the identities of minors are protected as a point of law in most jurisdictions . It is simply untrue to suggest that journalists report the unvarnished truth with no regard to its ramifications . Where a particular fact or image is likely to cause offence or distress , it is routine to exercise self-censorship its called discretion and professional judgement . Indeed , the news outlets that fail to do so are the ones most frequently and vociferously denounced by the high-minded intelligentsia who so frequently argue that broadcasting issues such as this constitutes free speech . It is palpably and demonstrably true that news outlets seek to avoid offending their market ; so liberal newspapers avoid exposs of bad behaviour by blacks or homosexuals otherwise they wouldnt have a readership . Most journalists try to minimise the harm caused by their reporting as shown by a study interviewing journalists on their ethics but how they define this harm and what they think will cause offence differs . Western journalists may find it awkward that many in the Arab world find the issue of homosexuality unpleasant or offensive but many of the same journalists would be aghast if they were asked to report activities that ran counter to their cultural sensibilities simply as fact . Trask , Larry , The Other Marks on Your Keyboard , , 1997 , Posner , Richard , A. , Bad News , , 31 July 2005 , Deppa , Joan A , & Plaisance , Patrick Lee , 2009 Perceptions and Manifestations of Autonomy , Transparency and Harm Among U.S . Newspaper Journalists , , pp.328-386 , p. 358 , 	Broadcasters almost never show scenes of torture or torment because they know this will cause offence , the same principle should apply here .
Many have argued that issues relating to homosexual relations are , fundamentally , a matter of privacy . That we should respect the rights of individuals to live their lives as they see fit without having the views , actions and opinions imposed upon them . Its a reasonable position but must surely relate to viewers and readers as much as it does to the subjects of news stories . If gay men and women have the right to live their lives free from the intervention of other traditions and beliefs then so do those communities religious and otherwise that find some of their demands offensive or objectionable . If the rights to privacy and self-determination are supported by those who support gay rights , then it would be inconsistent to suggest that this does not generate a right to avoid offence on behalf of those receiving news . Human rights campaign , Should gay marriage be legal ? , , updated 10 August 2012 , 	On issues such as gay marriage , human rights activists have taken the line that the right to marry is nobody elses business . That principle of privacy should work both ways .
There 's a lot to be said for eating well and being generally healthy . It 's not just a matter of weight but the effect that bad nutrition has in contributing to heart conditions , blood pressure , energy levels and other health indicators . None of these things are helped by trying to drop three stone in a couple of months by filling your body with one thing regardless of what it needs at the time as many of these diets do Our physical appearance should be an indicator of our lifestyle not an accessory to it . The diet industry has poured considerable time and effort , with help from Holywood and the publishing industry , in to promoting the idea that thin and emaciated are the same thing . Fad diets are , for many , less healthy than being a little overweight . BMJ , Obesity how to lose weight , 31 October 2012 , p. 3 , 	Inventing the idea of fat
One of the main forms of gender-based violence includes violent acts carried out by husbands or partners . Evidence shows the provision of land titles reduce risks to female health and vulnerabilities to violence . Women become accepted as , and confident , decision makers within their homes as titling redistributes power within households . Furthermore possessing a land title enables safer sexual relations by offering legal protection . Research in Kenya has shown titles will reduce the risk of spreading HIV/AIDS and rape . Due to gender norms widows are forced into traditional cleansing rituals , rape and forced marriage , in order to hold onto physical assets and inherit their rightful land from in-laws . Land titles are therefore a means of tackling gender discrimination and providing freedom of choice on how women can act . Women are less likely to be forced into unsafe sex , following the death of their husband or divorce , to occupy the land . Additionally , returning to the case of Kenya , FIDA have reported how a woman 's choice to divorce her partner often leaves many property-less . Women may be more likely to remain in an unhappy , dangerous , marriage without changes in property legal systems . Defined by WHO , 2013 . Sweetman , 2008 . Migiro , 2013 . 	Land titles will help end violence against women .
Access to titles is a means of poverty alleviation for female-headed households and women . Having recognised land rights means first , their land becomes exchangeable and profits can be gained through different strategies . Second , women are able to access credit and finance with the granting of a formal land title . Women are able to become entrepreneurs establishing businesses , agricultural cultivation , and the ability to sell property and land . Such investments have positive benefits for the whole economy . For example by encouraging crop cultivation to small-scale farmers food security can be provided , and the agrarian market revitalised . In the case of Ethiopia , the economy remains highly dependent on agricultural production . The security land titles provides has encouraged agricultural cultivation to women nationwide . Women are able to build a new food market and earn an income to sustain their livelihoods . See further readings : Oseni , 2013 . 	Land titles will develop entrepreneurial women .
Giving women the right to land will provide the path for gender equality in the present and future . Girls will be granted equal access rights to family land and inheritance in the future , and decisions around marriage dowry can be changed . 	Land titles for women today will provide inter-generational equalities for the future .
Due to a lack of access to formal titling women have been pushed into acquiring , and living in , slums . Land titling programmes benefit slum dwellers and inhabitants living in informal housing across African cities . Titles for women mean a sense of security to inhabit space is provided ; and women will be encouraged to invest in their land . Titling provision has resulted in slum upgrading , investing in changing the structure of urban Africa . Second , being recognised as title holders means women are able to demand new services - such as access to water , sanitation , and lights . Such demand will ensure improved health for women . Women are able to use the law to interact with the state and change their future by demanding crucial services . Slums are officially defined as a group of individuals living in a household which lacks safe housing , sufficient living space , access to water , adequate sanitation , and/or security of tenure -LRB- UN-Habitat , 2003 -RRB- . 	Land titles mean single women can build decent homes .
Land titles mean women will be recognised as citizens , with rights . Women will be included in the system of justice and their rights to occupy , build , and use , land , recognised . Titles will provide bottom-up empowerment . A physical and psychological sense of security will be provided ; and a sense of social belonging , and place , is enabled . Legal security has benefits for health -LRB- mental and physical -RRB- and reduces risk . For example , access to titles will reduce the vulnerability of women to property grabbing . In the case of Ethiopia , the introduction of joint land-titling and household registration in 2003 has been shown to have changed womens perception of tenure security . Previously , the prevalence of polygamous relationships meant only the first wife was granted legal rights and recognition , leaving other wives and households without rights to land . The provision of land titles ensures women equal security within a legal framework . Women are entitled to rights ; and titles provide the security to use the legal system . The Joint titling program in Ethiopia was a implemented as a partnership between the government and World Bank , see further readings : Girma and Giovarelli , 2013 ; Barne , 2010 ; and Deninger , 2008 . 	Land titles provide a voice in the legal system .
From its very founding , English was the common language of the United States , and full participation in the national life was dependent on the ability to speak it . Theodore Roosevelt himself once noted that Declaring English as the official language will give legal force to this history , and help provide unity to Americans at a time when many come from different backgrounds and hold different political views . Furthermore , it will help immigrants with the process of assimilation . Rather than simply learning English for pragmatic reasons , the act of learning English will tie immigrants into a political and historical tradition going back to Thomas Jefferson . 	The Identity and History of the United States are intrinsically linked to the English Language
One of the goals of the government in providing education is to prepare students for success in the work place , and therefore the government has an obligation to spend its money in the most efficient way possible to accomplish this . These costs might be justified if they actually helped students . But the reality is that they do not . For one thing , they allow students to get by without learning English . One of the great obstacles to learning a new language is the fact that parents of students may well speak another language at home . If students suddenly use that language at school as well , they will spend the vast majority of their day speaking a language other than English , with the consequence that they may not pick it up at all , and find themselves at a large disadvantage when they attempt to join the workforce . As a consequence , it seems likely that the money could be better used subsidizing tutoring for students learning English than running an entirely separate and parallel educational system . 	Bilingual Education is expensive and encourages balkanization
A number of possible models of regulation have been suggested for sovereign wealth funds . Some , such as Gilson and Milhaupt , have argued that state-owned investment vehicles that buy shares abroad should not be allowed voting rights in that stock . Others would put a cap on SWF investments , so that they can not take a stake of more than , say 20 % in any business without government approval within the country the SWF is investing in meaning that they can only be passive investors . Both these proposals would ensure that they are unable to abuse a dominant position while still allowing countries to benefit from cross-border investment in a globalised economy . At the same time such rules would prevent any broader protectionist backlash so the Sovereign Wealth Funds themselves could welcome the regulation . 	Sovereign wealth funds must be regulated
The ownership of important businesses by sovereign wealth funds runs counter to the economic policy pursued by almost every government over the past 25 years . In the 1970s many states owned nationalised industries as part of an attempt at socialist economic planning that has now been discredited . State ownership distorted incentives , interfered with management and produced decades of underinvestment , poor service to consumers , and national economic failure with the most extreme example being the Soviet Union itself . Since the 1980s countries everywhere have followed the example of Thatchers Britain and privatised their industries , freeing them to compete efficiently and to generate more wealth and jobs than they had ever done in state hands . Going back to state ownership of business is a dangerous backward step , especially as it is now foreign governments that are doing the nationalising . 	State ownership is not a good way of controlling funds
Sovereign wealth funds raise worrying issues about national security . Unlike mutual funds or private equity groups , which seek only to maximise their investors returns , SWFs must be regarded as political entities . Rather than passively holding their assets , they may seek to use their purchases to gain access to natural resources , advanced technologies , including those crucial to our defence , or other strategic sectors . For example Gulf states are using their SWFs to invest in food and natural resources from Latin America . They may engage in economic nationalism , shutting factories in western countries to give an unfair advantage to their own industries . While it has not yet happened they may even attempt economic blackmail , threatening to turn off the lights through their control of energy companies and utilities if governments do not fall in with their foreign policy aims . Allowing countries such as China , Russia and various Gulf states to buy up western companies at will is potentially very dangerous . Even if we regard these states as friendly at the moment , there is no guarantee that they will stay that way , especially as none of them share our political values . 	SWFs can harm national security
Sovereign wealth funds suffer from an almost total lack of transparency . Most countries maintain secrecy about the size of their funds and the extent of their holdings , their accountability to government , their investment strategies and their approach to risk management . Without knowing these things , it is impossible to gauge whether political or economic objectives will dominate the SWFs behaviour , or indeed whether they will make safe and responsible shareholders in any business secrecy breeds corruption . For these reasons , Jeffrey Garten of Yale has argued that SWFs should be obliged to publish independently audited accounts twice a year . He has also pointed out that many countries operating SWFs protect their domestic economy from foreign competition and investment . We should demand reciprocity , so that countries seeking investments abroad must open up their own economies fully before they are allowed to hold significant assets elsewhere . 	Sovereign Wealth funds are not transparent
Sovereign wealth funds -LRB- SWFs -RRB- have become very important players in the global economy . The already exceed the assets controlled by hedge funds and will surpass the stock of global foreign exchange reserves . They are now so big that their activities can shift markets , such as Norways Government Pension Fund did when short selling Icelands banks , leading to panic and instability when they sell assets suddenly . Their purchases can mean that companies owned by other states can end up dominating the economies of smaller countries , undermining their own sovereignty and economic independence . It is also worrying that many SWFs are controlled by undemocratic states which have a questionable commitment to capitalism ; should we allow such states to exercise so much power over our economies ? 	Sovereign wealth funds can undermine economic independence
People have many different interests in the accountability of governments ; different areas of concern , differing levels of skill in pursuing those interests and so on . They deserve , however , an equal degree of transparency from governments in relation to those decisions that affect them . Relying on a right to access is almost certainly most likely to favour those who already have the greatest access either through their profession , their skills or their social capital . The use of freedom of information requests in those countries where they are available shows this to be the case , as they have overwhelmingly been used by journalists , with a smattering of representation from researchers , other politicians and lawyers and so on . In the UK between 2005 and 2010 the total number registered by all ordinary members of the public is just ahead of journalists , the next largest group . The public are overwhelmingly outnumbered by the listed professional groups . Required publication , by contrast , presents an even playing field to all parties . Rather than allowing legislators to determine how and to whom and for what they should be accountable , a presumption in favour of publication makes them accountable to all . As a result , it is the only truly effective way of ensuring one of the key aims set out in favour of any freedom of information process . 	Even the most liberal FoI regime tends to pander to certain groups in society full disclosure levels that playing field
There are cost concerned with processing FoI requests both in terms of time and cash terms . To take one example Britains largest local authority , Birmingham , spends 800,000 a year dealing with FoI requests . There is also a delay from the point of view of the applicant . Such a delay is more than an irritant in the case of , for example , immigration appeals or journalistic investigations . Governments know that journalists usually have to operate within a window of time while a story is still hot . As a result all they have to do is wait it out until the attention of the media turns elsewhere to ensure that if evidence of misconduct or culpability were found , it would probably be buried as a minor story if not lost altogether . As journalism remains the primary method most societies have of holding government to account , it doesnt seem unreasonable that the methodology for releasing data should , at least in part , reflect the reality of how journalism works as an industry . Dunton , Jim , Cost of FoI requests rises to 34m , , 16 September 2010 , 	A faster , cheaper and simpler process
Genuine transparency and accountability of government action is not only in the interests of those who also have the right to vote for that government or who support it through the payment of taxes . The functioning of immigration services would seem to be a prime example . Maximising access to information relating to government decisions by dint of its automatic publication of information relating to those decisions ensures that all those affected will have recourse to the facts behind any decision . If , for example , a nations aid budget is cut or redirected , why should the citizens of the affected nation not have a right to know why ? If , as is frequently the case , it has happened because of an action or inaction by their own government , then it is important that they know . Equally if such a decision were taken for electoral gain , they at least have the right to know that there is nothing they or their government could do about it . 	Compelling public bodies to publish information ensures that non-citizens , minors , foreign nationals and others have access to information that affects them .
The primary advantage of putting the duty on government to publish , rather than on citizens to enquire is that it does not require the citizen to know what they need to know before they know it . Publication en masse allows researchers to investigate areas they think are likely to produce results , specialists to follow decisions relevant to their field and , also , raises the possibility of discovering things by chance . The experience of Wikipedia suggests that even very large quantities of data are relatively easy to mine as long as all the related documentation is available to the researcher the frustration , by contrast , comes when one has only a single datum with no way of contextualising it . Any other situation , at the very least , panders to the interests of government to find any available excuse for not publishing anything that it is likely to find embarrassing and , virtually by definition , would be of most interest to the active citizen . Knowing that accounts of discussions , records of payments , agreements with commercial bodies or other areas that might be of interest to citizens will be published with no recourse to national security or commercial sensitivity is likely to prevent abuses before they happen but will certainly ensure that they are discovered after the event . The publication of documents , in both Washington and London , relating to the build-up to war in Iraq is a prime example of where both governments used every available excuse to cover up the fact that that the advice they had been given showed that either they were misguided or had been deliberately lying . A presumption of publication would have prevented either of those from determining a matter of vital interest to the peoples of the UK , the US and , of course , Iraq . All three of those groups would have had access to the information were there a presumption of publication . has an overview of this an example of how politicians were misguided wilfully or otherwise can be found in : 	If public bodies do not have an obligation to publish information , there will always be a temptation to find any available excuses to avoid transparency .
Capital punishment is , in general seen as a significant human rights violation by the international community - not only most liberal democracies , but much of international civil society . Abolition will help lead to the development of a culture of human rights and the rule of law by acting as a benchmark of progress , and a symbol of a commitment to these principles . It is notable that Guinea Bissau is the only abolitionist nation in the bottom ten countries in Africa for the rule of law according to the Ibrahim Index of African Governances safety and rule of law category , compared to six abolitionist countries in the top ten . Mo Ibrahim Foundation , Ibrahim Index of African Governance , Mo Ibrahim Foundation , 2013 , 	Encourages a culture of respect for human rights
In the response to Fukushima accident European Commission carried out a series of stress tests on nuclear power plants in the EU to minimise the risk of such an accident occurring in the EU . The results were disturbing . According to the report European power plants are not well prepared for an emergency situation . Some of the power plants would have less than hour to restore safety systems in case of electric blackout . Currently more than 100,000 citizens live in proximity -LRB- 30 km -RRB- of 111 reactors . Should anything go wrong , many lives would be endangered . The problems could be resolved by dramatic investments into the safety measures . However , these investments would require approximately 25 bn . This is a sum indebted European Union can not afford . Therefore shutdown and substitution of these hazardous plants would be a much better idea . European Commission , Communication from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament on the comprehensive risk and safety assessments -LRB- stress tests -RRB- of nuclear power plants in the European Union and related activities , , 4 October 2012 , Paterson , Tony , Europes dangerous nuclear plants need 25bn safety refit , , 18 November 2013 , 	Nuclear energy in Europe is currently considered to be dangerous
In order not to harm environment , not to cause climate changes , renewable power plants -LRB- wind , water , solar -RRB- should be used . However , these do not work together with nuclear power plants . Nuclear plants giant very hot machines are designed to operate at full speed -LRB- 85 % -RRB- all the time . They are not designed to change the output quickly . Since they are very expensive to build , they are not economic unless operated at full speed -LRB- also turning off and on is expensive -RRB- . Solar and wind power plants are not stable -LRB- output varies because of natural factors -RRB- and thus need a backup , called a baseload . Nuclear plants are not a good backup for renewables . We need nimble plants in order to support wind and solar plants . Nuclear power stations do not work with solar , wind and water power stations , because they are running at full speed all the time -LRB- because of economic and technical reasons -RRB- . Instead gas plants that can be powered up and down as required are needed to balance power generation . If we want to move towards Green World nuclear energy does not help us to do so . It is generally agreed that we want more renewable power generation in Europe even if there are disagreements about where plants should be situated or how much must come from renewable sources . The European Union aims to have 20 % of energy from renewable sources by 2020 . And if it is to meet CO2 reduction targets far more will be needed in following decades . Nuclear is also not as helpful as renewables in meeting these CO2 reduction targets . It is estimated that renewables produce 10-40g of CO2 pre kWh of electricity produced , but nuclear is currently much higher at 90-140g / kWh , though still only a tenth of coal . And as mining becomes more difficult it is estimated that this could double making nuclear no better for reducing CO2 than gas power . Nelder , Chris , Why baseload power is doomed , , 28 March 2012 , European Commission , Directive Of The European Parliament And Of The Council Amending Directive 98/70/EC relating to the quality of petrol and diesel fuels and amending Directive 2009/28/EC on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources , , 17 October 2012 , CO2 emission of electricity from nuclear power stations , May 2012 , 	Nuclear energy goes against Green World
While nuclear power it is often proclaimed as clean this does not mean it is a renewable resource like wind , wave , or solar power . Nuclear power plants use uranium to produce energy , which , of course , needs to be mined . Currently only 2.3 % of uranium used in reactors in EU is mined in the EU . Moreover , the worlds main uranium deposits are located outside the EU . The use of nuclear energy thus undermines energy self-sufficiency of the EU . This may pose a serious threat to the future . Natural -LRB- and other -RRB- resources are usually used as the first intermediates of diplomatic disputes . When a country wants to exert diplomatic pressure on another country -LRB- or bloc of countries like EU -RRB- , trade bans or embargos are widely used . For example in 2009 Russia stopped gas supply to Ukraine due to trade dispute between their two national gas companies . Therefore , the supply of uranium may be susceptible to diplomatic and trade relations -LRB- which are often volatile -RRB- and consequently nuclear power may not be reliable . Is it one of the aims of the EU to become less dependent on imported material needed for energy production . As a non renewable resource we also need to think about the possibility of supplies running out . The concept of peak uranium is sometimes overblown but there is only a 230 years supply of uranium at current consumption rates . If the price gets high enough then there are other options for production , including from seawater , but this would clearly mean a big increase in cost and concerns that producers will try to keep cheaper uranium to themselves and export for much higher prices . Thus over longer term the nuclear energy may become far more expensive , or even unavailable due to lack of fuel . Euratom , Euratom Supply Agency Annual Report 2012 , , 2013 , European Commission , Renewable energy , , 2013 , Fetter , Steve , How long will the worlds uranium supplies last ? , , 26 January 2009 , 	Nuclear energy is non-renewable source
The great appeal of 3D printers is that they make consuming more efficient than normal methods : however , normal methods are inefficient in part because they undergo important checks and balances . Without proper regulations , standards are quickly dropped to save money and the health of thousands of consumers is put at risk . Such is the case in China , where consumer protection regulations are inefficient . Through 3D printing this becomes a global problem . Any company , real or fake , can sell products online without them having been approved . This means that people may buy dangerous products from unidentifiable , and thus legally unaccountable , companies . Shifting the burden of ensuring safety standards away from companies and onto consumers , who have significantly less information , is a threat to consumers health and safety . -LSB- 7 -RSB- China again heads EUs dangerous products list , . 16 April 2010 . 	Technology should not circumvent consumer protection laws
While 3D printing may revolutionise professional manufacturing and lead to less waste , in the household it promotes mindless consumerism . By producing anything desired cheaply and more accessibly , without even having to leave your house , they encourage people consume much more than they otherwise would . This happens because individual consumers tend not to be concerned about the sustainability implications of every purchase : they will do so even less when 3D printers allow instant gratification . On one hand , it can make people more dependent on material possessions , which makes it harder for them to attain more sustainable forms of happiness . Additionally , this eventually leads to more waste and overproduction , reversing all the potential benefits of industrial 3D printing . 	3D printers promote uncontrolled consumerism
All nations to develop economically depend on the importation of capital . In most cases , this takes the shape of labour-intense manufacturing . In fact , scarcely any countries have developed without transitioning through having a large manufacturing sector . It takes time for these countries to develop the capital and infrastructure to enter higher barrier to entry markets , such as the service sector . Transitioning without of manufacturing is therefore not an option for the majority of developing nations , and the exceptions that have succeeded in creating economic growth without large scale manufacturing , such as India and Sri Lanka , relied on spectacular luck . As a result , many developing nations depend on exporting cheap products to the developed world , where consumption is the highest . If demand for the goods they produce is satisfied in the developed world , such countries will be unable to export . Because of the labour intensiveness of the manufacturing this will affect a large number of people . Short term drops in growth are particularly harmful in the developing world , where social security is too underdeveloped to cushion their effect . People who work long hours for minimal wages do so because unemployment is not an option . Were these factories to have to close suddenly , the social consequences would be devastating . 3D printers provoke this to happen by satisfying all demand for cheap products . When individuals in Western liberal democracies can get access to cheaper products from their own home , developing nations will be unable to compete , and their exports fall substantially . 3D printers should remain at the industry level , where companies are more likely to rationally prefer importing cheap products over the extra costs of using 3D printers , such as electricity , and are likely to continue trade with the Third World . -LSB- 8 -RSB- Breaking In and Moving Up : New Industrial Challenges for the Bottom Billion and the Middle Income Countries , Industrial Development Report , . 2009 . -LSB- 9 -RSB- The Service Elevator , . 19 May 2011 . 	Household 3D printing can , in the short term , destroy developing economies
As the technology develops , it seems likely that guns like the one created by Defense Distributed will continue to appear , becoming cheaper , more functional and more accessible . While the US succeeded in promptly removing the blueprints , removing blueprints from the internet will quickly prove impossible as the phenomenon inevitably becomes more widespread . This is dangerous for all the same reasons that we do not allow people to produce their own weapons : we can not ensure criminals or mentally ill people do not gain access to them , and we can not track them after they have been used to commit a crime . Furthermore , they can be made of plastic , thus making them essentially undetectable to most security scans . When weapons become so easily accessible , crimes become easier for terrorists or criminals to commit , and thus more crimes take place . By banning printers before blueprints spread , we could avoid disasters such as the 2004 bombings in Madrid , in which the bombs were produced from instructions on the internet . Similarly , the production of drugs and other illegal substances becomes impossible to regulate when anybody can produce anything in their own homes from plans on the internet . Restricting the spread of blueprints online is impossible , so the physical means of production must be regulated before they become irreversibly accessible . Banning household 3D printers , therefore , is a necessary step to uphold the rules we find important to our safety . -LSB- 5 -RSB- Winter , Jana . Homeland Security bulletin warns 3D-printed guns may be impossible to stop , , Fox News . 23 May 2013 . -LSB- 6 -RSB- Online University : Jihad 101 for Would-Be Terrorists , . 17 August 2006 . 	Private 3D printers make it impossible to regulate illegal products
Intellectual property law is split into copyright , design protection , patents , and trademarks . All areas can be easily infringed by 3D printing . There is no meaningful way of sustaining these laws against individuals who choose to use 3D printers to benefit from the hard work of others . Much in the same way one can steal music online , blueprints for products can be decoded or stolen and subsequently reproduced at almost no expense . It may be impossible to determine where this has been done . This is unjust in itself , but it also creates a large deterrent from innovating by removing the profit incentive . Corporations and individuals will be pushed away from creating high quality innovative products if they know their blueprints can be pirated and spread online for free or for less than they themselves charge , making their effort in creating them worthless . -LSB- 13 -RSB- Gehl , Mary . The Implications of 3D Printing , Technology , . September 2012 . -LSB- 14 -RSB- Lawrence , Jon . 3D Printing : legal and regulatory issues , . 8 August 2013 . 	Solid piracy will become as problematic as virtual piracy
The problem in todays society is that marriage has become for many people a piece of paper ; they sign and , just as easily , terminate when things go wrong . Actually to a 2006 survey of 2134 women , 31 % thought marriage is no longer relevant in todays society and 71 % of couples thought that marriage happens too many times without thinking it through first . This process of covenant marriage gives the couples back the notion that marriage is not just a legal contract but a well thought-through decision . This is particularly prevalent bearing in mind the consequences it will have on the individual , their careers and even potential children . Through the premarital counseling by a trained counselor that is a requirement of covenant marriage enables the future husband and wife to get to know each other well . Issues such as how to raise children , how to split housework , and financial matters are discussed and explored with the counselor . 	Covenant marriage create the awareness of a special bond and mature choice between the parties to a marriage .
Passage of no-fault divorce laws resulted in an onslaught of divorce and a breakdown of the American family . In 1968 , the year before California adopted the nations first no-fault divorce law , the US had 584 000 divorces -LRB- 2.9 per 1 000 Americans -RRB- . After 30 years of no-fault divorce , the number of divorces had reached 1 135 000 annually . Covenant marriages are the answer . Research has shown that 33 % to 45 % of couples on the brink of divorce may reconcile if they are legally prevented from divorcing for six months as specified in a covenant marriage . The problem is that divorce does not just affect the individuals in the marriage but also the children . Parents should be alert to signs of distress in their child or children . Young children may react in times of divorcing by becoming more aggressive and uncooperative or by withdrawing . Older children may feel deep sadness and loss . Their schoolwork may suffer and behavior problems are common . As teenagers and adults , children of divorce can have trouble with their own relationships and experience problems with self-esteem . Also long custody disputes or pressure on a child to `` choose '' sides can be particularly harmful for the youngster and can add to the damage of the divorce . Research shows that children do best when parents can cooperate on behalf of the child . 	Covenant marriage prevents hasty divorce
In a covenant marriage , the offended spouse is the only one who can ask for the divorce . This gives the offended spouse many benefits in negotiating the end of the marriage . The stay at home spouse has clearly more to lose in assuming a marriage will last forever , especially if he/she puts her/his career on hold to care for children . A covenant marriage is a way for the individual to have more security in marriage . Many times , it happens that one of the spouses -LRB- usually the wife -RRB- has never established credit in her own name . And experts explain it 's easier for a 15-year-old to get a credit card than it is for a 50-year-old divorced woman . She just gets deleted , from all the affairs . Society as a whole has an interest in protecting the individual . An advocate for covenant marriage , Amitai Etzioni , founder and director of the Washington-based Communitarian Network , says , One can be deeply concerned with strengthening the commitment of marriage without favoring traditional or hierarchical forms of marriages or denying individuals full equal standing . Through covenant the stay at home spouses get more rights and certainty for financial security if the marriage does not work out anyway . Because the divorce law is very favorable towards them , because it is not their fault the marriage is falling apart . 	Covenant marriage creates more safety and security for spouses
Only intent , not the word nigger , can be racist . The word nigger is not racist . A word can never be racist , the only way a word is racist if it is used with racist intent and explained that way . There are other words besides `` nigger '' that is just as offensive because of the connotation , like eggplant . The word by itself has no meaning ; the history of the word and the situations in which the word is used brings the word to life . The term is both endearing and disrespectful depending on the situation in which it used . For example I can say `` You 're my nigga ! '' and it 's reviewed as positive or I can say `` You 're a nigga , '' and it can be seen as negative . The common debate about this word does n't exist so much with how to use it , but more so who uses it . Blacks use `` nigger '' to defy the history of the word and evoke empowerment Randall Kennedy . `` Nigger '' . 2002 . pp 46 - `` Self-hatred ... is an implausible explanation for why many assertive , politically progressive African Americans continue to say ` nigger ' openly and frequently in conversations with one another . These are Americans who , in their own minds at least , use nigger not in subjection to racial subordination , but in defiance of it ... Many black also do with nigger what other members of marginalized groups have done with slurs aimed at shaming them . They have thrown the slur right back in their oppressor ' faces . '' 	It is no longer harmful .
Progressive taxation can serve very effectively to increase the economic welfare and development of societies . It does so in three ways . First , it lifts the poor out of poverty by redistributing the tax burden from them onto the wealthy who are more able to pay , and gives them more disposable income to put back into the economy , which increases the velocity of money in the system , increasing growth . Second , workers will be more likely to work harder since they will feel the system is more equitable ; perceptions of fairness are very important to individuals . People will still work and save since they will want the goods and services they always did in the presence of progressive taxation , and will thus not be less motivated as detractors of progressive systems suggest . Third , progressive taxes serve as an automatic stabilizer in the event of recessions and temporary downturns in the market , in the sense that a loss of wages due to unemployment or wage cuts places an individual in a lower tax bracket , dampening the blow of the initial income loss . The American economy is a perfect example of how progressive taxation promotes broader economic growth ; data shows that average yearly growth has been lessened since the 1950s after the reduction in progressively in the tax system . In the 1950s annual growth was 4.1 % , while in the 1980s , when progressively in taxes fell dramatically , growth was only 3 % . Clearly , a progressive tax regime is best for workers and the economy generally . 	A well-implemented progressive taxation scheme serve to promote economic growth
The wealthy have more disposable income and are more financially secure than are the poor and economically tenuous . For this reason , a progressive system of taxation puts the tax burden more heavily on the wealthy which has the wherewithal to pay . Progressive taxes make everyone sacrifice equally , since true equality of taxation means equality of sacrifice . It is ludicrous to expect the poor and less well-off to pay the same proportional amount in taxes as the wealthy since they have to spend most of their income on essential goods like food and shelter ; it is unjust to gain all state revenues from regressive taxes like VAT , since the wealthy have excess resources they can do without while not overly influencing their standard of living . Progressive taxation serves to help the poor and worst off while not leaving the wealthier worse off , since they still have more money . Clearly , progressive taxation is just in terms of burdens on individual taxpayers . 	Those able to pay more should pay more into the tax system
Wealthier people benefit from the state more than do those who are worse off for two reasons . First , they have more to lose in the absence of the state . Without the rule of law , people would no longer be bound by any power to respect one anothers property rights . A rich person has much more to lose should there be a reversion to the state of nature ; nothing would shield him from the mob . For this reason it is in the interest of the wealthy to preserve the just rule of law in the state and to uphold its institutions . It does so by funding it through taxation , and those who have more to lose have a greater interest in paying more to ensure its continuity . The second benefit the rich have is that they have gained more from the state than have the poor and less well off . It is only within a state system that maintains order and provides vital services that markets can form and be maintained . Warren Buffett , for example , has argued that he could never have amassed anywhere near the sort of wealth he has in a country without the rule of law , such as Bangladesh . Wealthy business owners and corporations use state utilities far more than poorer individuals quite often , when for example they use public roads to move their vast fleets of trucks , while individuals only drive their personal car . The state guarantees property rights , which allows markets to form and provides the protections and services to businesses that need them to function . Those who profit from that have an obligation to contribute to its upkeep . 	Those who have more owe more to the state
All goods suffer from diminishing marginal utility , and this includes money . The more money someone , the less happy they are made from each successive addition of wealth after a certain point . One might be able to buy a second car or a second house with extra money , but eventually one runs out of things one particularly wants to buy or own . When wealth is unevenly distributed in society , the wealth of society is inefficiently distributed . The aim of the state must be to attempt to maximize the aggregate utility of its citizens insofar as it is able without damaging the economy . With progressive taxation , wealth is effectively reallocated to poorer people , who gain more utility than the wealthy lose in the process . The state has a right to do this not only because it generates a more efficient distribution of income than the market does , but also because income is partly a collective good . Ownership rights to property and the ability to expand them is only possible within the framework of the state ; thus the state can make a moral ownership claim to some of the products of the services it provides , and does so most effectively through the mechanism of progressive taxation . 	The state should promote the efficient distribution of income in order to maximize the utility derived by society from its economic resources
Progressive taxation provides real equality of opportunity , and serves to level the playing field so that social classes are not fixed . Everyone deserves a chance to climb the economic ladder , but without a regime of progressive taxation this is nearly impossible . If tax revenues are generated by flat or regressive taxes the poor will necessarily have to contribute substantial portions of their own income to the state , cutting into their ability to consume and save . Social services must still be financed , and the best way to do that is through a progressive tax regime that makes those most able to pay more pay more ; if more of the burden is placed on the poor and disadvantaged , as it must in a flat-rate system , fewer people will be able to climb out from the social strata in which they are born . The more equal society created by these taxes is thus more equitable , since it affords people greater opportunities . It is also more harmonious , since well-funded services keep people from feeling desperate and to turn to such things as crime . But greater equality itself can also be beneficial , as it reduces distinctions between groups in society , and prevents stratification into social classes based on wealth . People who are more alike can sympathize and empathize more with one another . Progressive taxation thus promotes a very real and powerful social message that can greatly benefit social cohesion . 	Progressive taxation promotes a more equal , more harmonious society
Given the evolution in the role of the Secretary-General , he/she needs skills beyond those required of a chief administrator and more closely resembling those of a statesman . Like in the case of heads of state , having to compete in a contest for the popular vote would require candidates to demonstrate their competence for the job and their vision for the future of the organization . These would then become the primary considerations in the popular decision , not their pliability to the interests of the worlds richest nations . 	The UN Secretary General needs to convince the people of the world that he/she is competent enough for the job
Most Secretaries-General are compromise-candidates from middle powers and with little prior fame . High-profile candidates , like Bill Clinton , are often touted for the job , but are almost always rejected as unpalatable to some of the permanent member states . For instance , figures like Charles De Gaulle or Dwight Eisenhower are rumored to have been considered for the first Secretary-General position , but were rejected in favor of the uncontroversial Norwegian , Trygve Lie . Thus excellent leaders and statesmen are outright excluded from the selection process because the permanent five have no incentive to nominate a strong , forceful figure for the role . Popular election would reverse this bias , as only well-known international heavy-weight figures would be able to gain sufficient votes from citizens all over the world . Californian governor Jerry Brown signed a bill deciding to award all California electoral votes to the candidate for US president that wins the national popular vote . The following analogy can be made : popular vote reflects the opinions of all over whom the person elected will have power , and should not be surpassed by bureaucracy such as veto power or the electoral college system . 	Popular vote would improve the choice of candidates
Gender and geographic diversity would improve among candidates . Out of eight Secretaries-General so far , a woman has yet to lead the organization . Furthermore , women candidates are rarely even considered . Vaira Vike-Freiberga , only got seven positive votes when she ran against Ban Ki-moon . Getting rid of the cumbersome veto process might encourage more women to come forward . Currently , the status quo tends to perpetuate itself . The representatives who end up making the decisions on a candidates viability are usually men , from wealthy and privileged backgrounds . By bringing more people into the decision-making process , the door is open to more types of people . For example , Hilary Clinton or German Chancellor Merkel might be candidates , as well as figures from Eastern Europe -LRB- who have held no SG positions so far -RRB- . 	Gender and geographic diversity would improve through popular election
The IAEA 's approach to non-proliferation -LRB- monitoring nuclear facilities -RRB- focuses , almost entirely , on what is known as the demand side . America can supplement this with a counter-proliferation strategy that focuses on preventing supply . A US-led coalition has , for example , started the Proliferation Security Initiative -LRB- PSI -RRB- . States within the PSI have agreed to share intelligence about unlawful shipments of nuclear materials and then intercept these cargoes at sea . This strategy enables the US to prevent proliferation to organizations which are outside of the IAEA 's reach , namely terrorist organizations and states which are not party to , or ignore , the NPT . Although exact details are kept secret , a number of illegal shipments have been stopped and seized under PSI . A second example of America 's supply-side approach is the proposal to stop the spread of reprocessing and enrichment . Clearly , preventing potential proliferators from buying the technology to produce nuclear weapons in the first place is a more effective strategy than monitoring it once it is in the hands of states which may abuse it . 	The IAEA only addresses part of the problem
States can legally acquire the capacity to build a nuclear bomb and then withdraw from the treaty . The essential problem is that uranium and plutonium are used as fuel for both nuclear reactors and nuclear bombs . The processes by which these materials are manufactured -LRB- uranium enrichment and plutonium reprocessing -RRB- are permitted because they have legitimate applications in civilian nuclear programs . On its website it is stated : the IAEA verifies through its inspection system that States comply with their commitments , under the Non-Proliferation Treaty and other non-proliferation agreements , to use nuclear material and facilities only for peaceful purposes . Providing a state ` plays along ' with the IAEA and allows inspections , it can legally acquire these technologies . Then , once it is in a position to produce material suitable for use in a weapon , it can simply leave the NPT . All a state then has to do to leave the NPT is give 6 months notice ; the IAEA is then left powerless . Indeed , this is precisely what North Korea did , and what it is feared that Iran will do . North Korea is known to have reprocessing technology -LRB- and it probably has an enrichment capability too -RRB- . In 2003 it withdrew from the NPT -LRB- following the breakdown of an agreement with the US -RRB- placing its facilities out of the reach of the IAEA . Although international law has succeeded in preventing proliferation in some cases , its ` optional ' nature means that to be truly effective it must sometimes be bolstered by American unilateral action . 	The ability of the IAEA to prevent proliferation is severely limited by a 'loophole ' in the NPT :
Unlike the IAEA , the USA is able to take fast , decisive action against a potential proliferator . In contrast , the United States can act quickly and decisively . Quickly because there is usually consensus between the President and Congress about proliferation issues . Decisively because of the massive diplomatic , economic and , in extreme cases , military power at the USA 's disposal . This power can not only be used to stop a potential proliferator in its tracks but is also an effective deterrent to states trying to go nuclear . In an example , the US was able to take decisive action in Kosovo when the rest of the world was dealing with bureaucracy , instead of helping the people there . 	The US is able to take decisive action
The dispute over the two cities only serves to harm co-operation between Morocco and Spain . Bilateral disagreements have prevented the resolution of other issues and generally heightened diplomatic tensions between these geographically close countries . When the Prime Minister and King of Spain both visited Morocco to resolve the Perejal crisis and Western Sahara issues , relations periodically improved . However a subsequent visit by the PM and King to Ceuta and Melilla in 2006 and 2007 reversed the progress made due to Moroccan outrage . If Spain ceded these cities to Morocco then relations would improve , which could lead to increased co-operation on other issues . 1 -RRB- Arieff , A. Morocco : Current Issues 30 June 2011 	The dispute damages Morocco-Spain relations
Democracy and elections are about popularity but popular decisions are not always the right ones . Even mature democracies have sometimes seen their governments make use of the levers of government to boost their electoral chances ; for example Margaret Thatchers government stoked the economy in the Lawson boom in 1987 which just happened to be an election year . Governments without elections can engage in long term planning and make unpopular decisions without fear of the consequences . Thus for example Saudi Arabia is willing to pump less oil -LRB- and so get less money in the short term at least -RRB- in order to create stability in the oil market by having enough excess capacity to prevent price spikes . Congdon , Tim , , 2007 , p. 73 	Allows the ruler to make necessary but unpopular decisions
Not having any elections or only elections for a powerless advisory parliament may actually have a benefit in putting responsibility squarely on the shoulders of the rulers . Only a country that is comparatively well governed , or successful , can manage without a democratic safety valve . It is notable that the remaining absolute monarchies or those where the King rules as well as reigns are mostly very wealthy petro states . Several of the remaining communist regimes , China and Vietnam , rely on rapid economic growth to cement their legitimacy combined with meritocracy in their selection of leaders . In both cases there is an incentive for good governance by those in power as they are in for the long term . The leaders know they are not going to be elected out of office so have the motivation to reduce corruption and create long term growth through investment in infrastructure because this will benefit them in the future . Feldman , Noah , Feldman examines corruption and political legitimacy in China , , 11 March 2013 , 	Forces the ruler to find another way to placate the people
It is hard to see what the benefit of an election that can change nothing is , but there are certainly all the costs associated with a normal election . Elections can be costly in financial terms , the United States elections cost several billion dollars but even much smaller and less extravagant elections need financing . Zimbabwes elections in 2013 forced the government to ask its neighbours for $ 85 million to carry out the polls , for a nation that is essentially bankrupt this is a lot of money . Another cost is uncertainty . In fully democratic elections the uncertainty is with what the policies will be when the government changes . With sham elections the uncertainty is whether the elections will be a focus for violence . Sometimes this is during campaigning itself as with Zimbabwe in 2008 where up to 200 people were killed . Otherwise violence occurs when there is a perception that an election has been stolen so the Green Movement in Iran took to the streets and was met with a violent crackdown in 2009 . VOA News , Zimbabwe Seeks Help to Cover Election Costs , , 10 July 2013 , Zimbabwe : No Justice for Rampant Killings , Torture , , 8 March 2011 , AFP , Iran opposition says 72 killed in vote protests , , 3 September 2009 , 	Avoids the costs and uncertainty of elections
Holding sham elections is fundamentally dishonest as it is asking the people to choose a government and then ignoring their choice . Not holding elections is at least honestly telling the people that they get no say in who is in power . Holding a sham election inevitably means having to lie to the people somewhere along the line ; whether it is in preventing people registering , or voting , or in manipulating the results . The people usually know the result is a sham or at least are suspicious in the latest Zimbabwean election the headlines in the newspapers included ZANU-PF gloats over victory . Without a sham election the government can at least be honest with their people so enabling a level of trust or even a kind of contract between the two the government and the people each lets the other get on with it . Thus for example in China trust in government in 2012 was 76 % against the world average of 51 % . Chinaka , Cris , Africa and West at odds over disputed Zimbabwe election , , 4 August 2013 , Sedghi , Ami , and Rogers , Simon , Do we trust our government ? See how your country compares , , 24 January 2012 , 	Having no elections is honest
Including women in politics helps enable poverty to be tackled . Poverty is a womens issue ; women are more likely to live in poverty than men , and women are needed in politics to change this . Women understand each other , and what they need . Furthermore , although data varies , evidence shows gender inequalities remain intertwined to poverty and impoverishment . Women in positions of power and leadership can put the issues women face on the agenda and apply action . There is clearly a need to get women into politics to counter the current boys club that exists in most countries where men help each other into positions of power squeezing out women and other methods of doing things . See further readings : Gender Inequality Index , 2014 . See further readings : Chant , 2003 . 	Feminising the state : women helping women
Anat Kamm was correct when she said I kept thinking that history tends to forgive people who expose war crimes . Maj.-Gen . Yair Naveh was documented as saying This is an arrest operation But in case -LSB- the soldiers -RSB- identify one of the senior leaders of the Islamic Jihad , Walid Obeid , Ziad Malaisha , Adham Yunis , they have permission to open fire in accordance with their appraisal of the situation during the operation . As attorney Michael Sfard states `` In other words , the use of words referring to arrest when in fact there is no real intention of carrying out an arrest , but the reference is to assassination . '' This was despite a supreme court ruling in 2006 that militants must be detained . Kamm may be incorrect when considering this action a war crime as Israel was not at war at the time however assassination is clearly illegal under international law . The press has four roles in a democracy ; holding power to account , highlighting issues that need attention , educating citizens , and connecting people to create civil society . In this particular case all of the first three roles were clearly being performed . 	It is right that illegal acts by the state be exposed
There were aspects of IDF operations which I thought should be brought to the attention of the public . Kamm is correct ; in any state , but especially in a democracy like Israel , the military is there to protect the state and its people . It is paid for by the people through their taxes . The military is composed of the people through conscription . And as a result what it does is in the name of the people . The accountability of the instruments of the state , including the military , is at the core of what it means to be a democracy . It is therefore essential that the people know what it is doing in their name . Many democracies have laws giving a right to know for example the United States Freedom of Information Act and First Amendment right of access . It is therefore in the public interest to expose activities that may be detrimental to the state . In this case the military was exposed doing something it has been specifically ordered not to do by the courts so exposing a military that was disobeying civilian authority . 	The public have a right to know what is committed in their name
States have militaries to protect themselves creating a paradox that The very institution created to protect the polity is given sufficient power to become a threat to the polity . The Military is a powerful institution even in a stable democracy like Israel , it needs to be held to account because it is the institution within a state that has most capability to use force if it wishes . An unaccountable military is a military that is much more likely to engage in coups and other anti-democratic actions . Israel is an unusual case in the west in that it has allowed the boundaries separating government , military and society to become blurred leading to worries of military influence on policy . None the less most of the time we can trust the government to hold the military to account however the only sure guarantee is for everyone to have access to all information that have a very low risk of resulting in lives lost ; designs of weapon systems , current deployments or planning for current and future missions . This transparency should of course be from the top down with the military giving out this information freely as the military is in a position to know what information is still current and may result in lives being lost . However if the military refuses to be transparent on crimes committed then there is a need for individuals to provide that transparency themselves . Cases like Anat Kamms which punish attempts by soldiers to call their superiors to account are therefore damaging as it shows that the officers will not be brought to justice but the leaker will be punished . This actively encourages the military to believe it is above the law and is not accountable to the people . 	The military can only be held to account if there is transparency
Indias post-independence history is one of partition along religious grounds with Pakistan and then open warfare with that state over territory . There is still a large Muslim minority in India and there are deep underlying social tensions within the country on this basis , along with frosty relations with a nuclear-capable Pakistan . In this context , Indias leaders have a special reason to pay attention to the sensibilities of their minority populations . If allowing the publication of would result in social unrest then on the balance of harms it is a rational choice to make a limited restriction on freedom of speech rather than see potential millions having their property and lives threatened . 	India has a specific need to main social cohesion
Society has a right to choose and structure its values as it sees fit and there is no reason why the Western construction of values is right or should take priority over any other . In Muslim countries faith may be a more important aspect of life that it might be in Western countries and it is entirely legitimate that those societies might choose to value protecting the dignity of their faith over absolute freedom of speech . 	Peoples have a right to choose their cultural values
National security concerns around terrorism mean that it is necessary to have a deterrent that will help prevent the recruitment of terrorists . Terrorism is one of the biggest threats to western countries today and this is potentially an effective way of dealing with it . Traditional military responses to terrorism do not work due to terrorists underground nature and decentralised cell structure that operates throughout the world . It is even questionable whether al Qaeda as a group exists at all except as an identity for those wanting to attack the west to operate under . Efforts against terrorism therefore need to be aimed at preventing radicalisation and stopping individuals rather than attempting to destroy the whole group known as al Qaeda . This law not only deters people from becoming extremists through making them think twice about visiting extremist websites but it also helps to deter promoters of extremism through denying them an audience . If punishing users of extremist websites prevents even a few people who would otherwise have visited these websites from doing so and setting out on a part of radicalisation that leads to terrorism then it will have been a success . 	There needs to be a deterrent against those thinking of visiting extremist websites
The internet may be a free for all where all ideas and viewpoints can be found but that does not mean that all users view all these views . Instead the internet acts as an echo chamber that encourages people to believe their own views are correct and so get more extreme rather than challenging them . Eli Pariser author of a book called argues that the internet forces us to consume a very narrow range of views as search engines have been personalised with the intention of letting users find what they like so two people searching for the same thing on google can get very different results , for example when googling BP during the oil spill one person might be directed to information about the spill and its environmental consequences while another might get just investment information . When this kind of filtering is added to people constantly interacting with extremists and on websites praise and incite terrorism it is clear that users of these sites will get caught in a confirmation bias and conformation bias tends to lead to people becoming more polarised . It is therefore the right policy to punish users of extremist websites before they become too radicalised as it is only a very short step from believing an attack is praiseworthy to carrying out similar attacks . 	The internet is an echo chamber that will confirm extremists in their views if not stopped
Regardless of whether as Sarkozy claims Mohammed Merah would himself have been stopped earlier had this law been in place at the time this law will catch some terrorists in the future and stop them before they can do large amounts of harm . Punishing users of extremist websites will mean that the government can stop those who are on a path to radicalisation through their access to the internet and as a result this will help neutralise a key tool used by extremists to radicalise others . There have already been examples of people being inspired to carry out violent jihad through material online such as Roshonara Choudhry who after watching some of Anwar Al Awlakis sermons online attempted to murder Labour MP Stephen Timms . This kind of legislation would mean that he could be punished for the lesser crime thereby preventing him from being able to engage in much more damaging criminal activities . Simply put if extremists are behind bars they are not engaging in terrorist attacks that could kill many people . 	Link between visiting extremist websites and being radicalised
The purpose of the ICC is to be the venue for the implementation of international criminal law , a principle that the international community has supported since the creation of the ICTY and ICTR and prior to that . The crimes that the court is to prosecute include genocide which is probably not occurring but has been alleged , crimes against humanity and War Crimes which have certainly happened the chemical attacks being just one among many examples . The allegations against the Assad regime are serious including the use of chemical weapons , which are specifically mentioned as a war crime under article 8/1/b / xviii the Rome Statute . It would set a terrible precedent for such crimes to not be punished under international criminal law . About the Court , , Chulov , Martin , and Mahmood , Mona , Syrian Sunnis fear Assad regime wants to ethnically cleanse Alawite heartland , , 22 July 2013 , Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court , , 1998 , 	The ICC is there to prosecute war crimes there has been evidence of a war crime
The ICC has a high level of soft power in this case . It has the resources to investigate and prosecute , backed up by widespread support from large swathes of the international community . The ICC is part of a growing international norm against war and crimes against humanity . The willingness to prosecute for these crimes particularly if it is done consistently will build norms where even ruthless leaders realise they cant get away with such crimes . Pursuing war crimes from the Syrian conflict alone will not be enough but when combined with similar measures elsewhere and the arrests of other leaders such as Charles Taylor , Slobodan Milosevic and Laurent Gbagbo show that even leaders are no longer out of reach of international law . The ICC could act as an effective deterrent to the use of chemical weapons and other war crimes by threatening to prosecute individuals who commit them . Grono , Nick , The deterrent effect of ICC on the commission of international crimes by government leaders , , 5 October 2012 , 	The threat of investigation could deter future war crimes , including the use of chemical weapons
The UN Security Council has so far been undecided over any future action in Syria . China has so far been unconvinced over any action . Russia has supported Assad , selling the Assad regime arms . Russia and China , being permanent members of the UNSC means that they can block any action on this issue that the other permanent members -LRB- USA , UK and France -RRB- may wish to bring for any form of sanction towards the Assad regime . While it may not be possible to get Russia to support a military intervention , which is something that they are opposed to , it may be possible to swing Russia round to a position where they abstain on a reference to the ICC . Russia has had a flexible -LRB- or , more cynically , hypocritical , view on the ICC before , opposing a Syria reference in February 2013 but supporting one in to the actions of NATO in the Syrian conflict -RRB- position on the ICC , having voted in favour of references to it before . Because the involvement of the ICC would mean investigating both sides it would not be entirely impossible for a diplomatic solution to be reached for Russia to abstain on a reference . Al Jazeera and agencies , Russia and Iran warn against attack on Syria , , 27 August 2013 , Kaye , David , Responsibility to Object , , 10 January 2013 , Baczynska , Gabriela , Russia opposes referring Syrians to ICC now : official , , 19 February 2013 , Russia wants ICC to examine NATO bombings , , 18 May 2012 , 	An ICC referral may be the only UNSC option .
The use of the ICC could work better than domestic show trials in the aftermath of a civil war . Instead of domestic courts , prone to all their biases , an international , unbiased , criminal system could replace the prospect of a Ceausescu-style non-trial followed by summary execution , or some other form of unfair trial which could sow the seeds for problems down the line . Even the trial of Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein done while the United States had a lot of influence over the country as a result of its occupation was condemned as having serious administrative , procedural and substantive legal defects . Instead , an ICC trial would allow the full details to be probed , investigated and independently prosecuted without being subject to domestic post-war recriminations . Judging Dujail The First Trial before the Iraqi High Tribunal , , 20 November 2006 , 	The ICC would prevent show trials
There is a growing body of evidence linking a healthy lifestyle , comprising of both adequate nutrition and physical exercise , with improved memory , concentration and general academic performance . A study has shown that when primary school students consume three or more junk food meals a week literacy and numeracy scores dropped by up to 16 % compared to the average . This is a clear incentive for governments to push forward for healthier meals in schools for two reasons . The first obvious benefit is to the student , whose better grades award her improved upward mobility especially important for ethnic groups stuck worst by the obesity epidemic and a lower average socioeconomic status . The second benefit is to the schools , who benefit on standardized testing scores and reduced absenteeism , as well as reduced staff time and attention devoted to students with low academic performance or behavior problems and other hidden costs of low concentration and performance of students . 	Better nutrition leads to better students .
Under the pressure of increasing media coverage and civil society initiatives , schools are being called upon to take up arms against childhood obesity , both by introducing more nutritional and physical education classes , as well as transforming the meals they are offering in their cafeterias . Never before has school been so central to a childs personal and social education . According to a study conducted by the University of Michigan , American children and teenagers spend in school about 32.5 hours per week homework a week 7.5 hours more , than 20 years ago . School curricula now cover topics such as personal finance , sex and relationships and citizenship . A precedent for teaching pupils about living well and living responsibly has already been established . Some schools , under national health programs , have given out free milk and fruit to try and make sure that children get enough calcium and vitamins , in case they are not getting enough at home . While we are seeing various nutritional and health food curricula cropping up , revamping the school lunch is proving to be a more challenging task . Limited resources and budget cuts hamper schools from offering both healthful , good-tasting alternatives and physical education programs , says Sanchez-Vaznaugh , a San Francisco State University researcher . With expert groups such as the Obesity Society urging policy makers to take into account the complex nature of the obesity epidemic , especially the interplay of biological and social factors that lead to individuals developing the disease , it has become time for governments to urge schools to put their education into practice and give students an environment that allows them to make the healthy choices they learn about in class . 	Schools need to practice what they preach
Schools are playing an increasingly formative role , in the sense that theyre being tasked with not only knowledge transfer , but also the creation of behaviors and placing emphasis on teaching students how to apply their knowledge . Given this expanded mandate , the schools are not only obliged to therefore offer choices that would go hand in hand with healthier behavior , but also the perfect pressure point for lawmakers to go about introducing healthier lifestyles . The simple reason is that our kids are increasingly looking not to their parents , but schools and the environments they provide , for advice on how to live their lives . They are also the traditional environments for youth to continuously invent and reinvent themselves and therefore hold immense potential for behavior modification . 	Schools are the best place to create lasting lifestyle changes .
If communications between an attorney and their client are confidential , then it allows for lies to be put forward to the court in order to defend someone who is guilty . In the case of a criminal matter , it could mean that even though a defendant has stated they are guilty to their attorney , they will not be found to be guilty . Every attorney wants to win their case , and if they are likely to conceal the confession of their client if it means their client will be released . As the communication is confidential , such confession will not be informed to the court and the attorney would not be exposed for their lies . The confidential nature of the communications between attorney and client open the possibility for a system of justice based upon lies . This is not just and so the Attorney-Client Privilege should be abolished . 	It makes it more likely that attorneys will lie for their clients
One of the principles behind allowing communications between a solicitor and their client to be privileged is that a solicitor is independent of their client and so will not breach laws themselves in order to attain their clients objectives . However , after the recession of 2008 and the Legal Services Act 2007 the position of in house lawyer is more prevalent . In house lawyers are not financially independent . They are in fact employees of their ` client ' . This eradicates the principle behind client-attorney privilege and therefore the privilege itself is now irrelevant and should be eradicated . 	The principle behind attorney-client privilege is declining in relevance
A system of just law is not based on opinions or ideologies . It is about finding evidence and using that evidence to prove or disprove either to ` beyond reasonable doubt ' for criminal cases or ` on the balance of probabilities ' for civil and commercial matters . The burden is on the importance of the evidence . It does not make sense for a legal system to on one hand place so much emphasis on evidence and lock away documents which will contain a vast array of empirical evidence with the other . Instead , attorney-client privilege should be abolished and all evidence should be in justices domain in order to ensure that the law achieves a just result . 	It blocks a significant amount of evidence
Most obviously it seems unnecessary for there to be attorney client privilege when the defendants interests can not be adversely affected . For example when the confidential information just does not incriminate the client himself but it might clear somebody else , or when the client is dead . Few people will be discouraged from being candid with their lawyers if there is merely the possibility that the communications may be disclosed after their death . In addition there are situations where the clients interest may indeed be hurt but where this should be outweighed by some other very important public interest . In other words perhaps there should be necessity or public interest or in the interests of justice balancing exceptions to the privilege . This would be the case when public safety is at risk , for example if the client holds some very vital information but is not willing to disclose it to anyone other than his lawyer . In such cases the courts should weigh up and balance the clients interests against societys and make the decision accordingly rather than rigidly sticking to attorney-client privilege . 	Attorney client privilege need not be sacrosanct in all situations
With the attorney-client privilege in place , there is an excessive burden on the solicitor to cope with any information their client may give to them on a confidential basis . This means they have to deal with the information alone . This is an excessive moral burden for any individual to have and should not be justified on the basis that a solicitor is there to advance the interests of their client . It should not be the solicitors role to deal with moral conflicts alone . 	It places excessive moral burden on solicitors
We all have a duty to provide aid to those who need it and the government is the best placed to act on this duty . We all need a place to live , a level of healthcare and some income in order to survive . The idea behind the welfare state is to provide for this through creating a safety net for every citizen . The state is responsible for the social and economic wellbeing of it citizens . It does this by , for example , provision of social housing either at greatly reduced rates or free of charge , through state hospitals , through unemployment benefit for those made unemployed and disability benefits for those who cant work . With austerity the government is doing exactly the opposite of what it should be doing to help its citizens . Just at a time when more people need these payments they are being cut back . To make matters worse an increase in VAT has been a favored method of increasing government income while there has been a squeeze on unemployment benefits as the government does not want to pay more as unemployment rises ; in Greece in the year to December 2010 the number of unemployed workers was up 45.1 % whereas the number of unemployment benefit recipients went up only 9.6 % . As a result the whole package of austerity measures is usually regressive , with its impact falling harder on the poor than the rich , as has been the case in Greece . Kavanagh , Dennis , , 3 ed . , Oxford University Press , 1993 , p. 17 	Governments have a moral duty to help their citizens
The current course of austerity on top of austerity risks creating a lost generation of youth across Europe . Unemployment is high everywhere in Europe but it is particularly pronounced among young people . In the Eurozone the average youth , under 25s , unemployment rate is 21.6 % while in Spain and Greece it is more than 50 % . Such staggeringly high unemployment rates will have immense consequences as a whole generation is demoralised . Even when the economy recovers this lost generation may not be able to get a job as new school leavers and graduates will get the jobs in preference to those who have been unemployed for long periods . There needs to be more money , not less , for education and retraining for the sectors of the economy where there are jobs , such as IT specialists . This means more investment not just in adult education but more money being spent on creating jobs , whether permanent , placements or internships , specifically to give young people experience in work . The European commission recognises the problem and is providing 275 million for placements around Europe , member governments must do the same . 	Without more social support there will be a lost generation
Austerity leads to a cycle of decline that continues on down until the state has been stripped down to the bare bones . We are seeing this in countries where the European Union has enforced austerity as a condition for bailouts , particularly Greece . Government austerity reduces demand as the government is spending less . With less demand the economy is damaged and a smaller tax take comes in for the government leading to even greater austerity if the government is to balance its books . Austerity therefore creates a vicious cycle when there is no extra demand from the private sector to cushion the blow . Even Standard & Poors previously a champion of austerity in its justification for downgrading the credit rating of Eurozone governments said austerity alone risks becoming self-defeating , as domestic demand falls in line with consumers ' rising concerns about job security and disposable incomes , eroding national tax revenues . The answer is therefore less austerity , more support for the economy and more social support for the citizens . If people are less concerned for the future as a result of knowing there will be government support if they are made unemployed they will be more willing to spend rather than save when they are employed so helping the economy to recover . 	Austerity is creating a cycle of decline
The principle of paternalism , that the state may interfere with another person , against their will , with the motivation of protecting that person from harm , underlines a wide range of policies and laws across the United States , and there is already a precedent for such paternalistic laws particularly within New York City . New York City , under the leadership of Mayor Bloomberg , has enacted regulations on smoking , restaurants use of salt and trans fats . Laws prohibiting marijuana , cocaine , and other potentially harmful drugs are made with the goal to protect citizens . Seatbelt laws and the prohibition of cell phone use while driving all infringe upon a persons freedom of choice but have been accepted for their inherent positive causation meaning there will be less deaths and injuries in accidents . Paternalistic policies are made to maintain the publics safety and well-being with the assumption that the government knows best . Mayor Bloombergs proposed ban on soda sold in containers larger than 16 ounces targets the growing problem of obesity in New York City . Although obesity has been a popular topic of discussion in the City , there has been negligible advancement in weight-loss . This growing problem shows that education is not enough to incentivize people to control themselves . Dr. Donald Klein writes , A fleeting , short-term self that enjoys chocolate , nicotine , or heroin is working his will on an enduring self that pays the cost . Although we may fancy ourself a fully integrated and consistent being , it might make more sense to describe ourself as a bundle of multiple selves , selves that overlap , intermingle , and sometimes conflict . That more than 50 % of New Yorkers are overweight shows the people do not recognize their own long term interests . Mayor Bloombergs goal is to limit soda consumption of the population . He has the wellbeing of New Yorkers in mind and he is following a precedent that people need guidance in personal choices . 	There is precedent of paternalistic government policies in NYC .
Although rising obesity levels in the city have been a major issue in New York City recently , any measures already enacted have failed to curb the growing numbers of obese New Yorkers . The Bronx has the largest percentage of overweight adults , a staggering 70 percent ; the other four boroughs also have seen increases in the past decade . Sixty-two percent of Staten Island adults are overweight ; followed by Brooklyn , at 60 percent ; Queens , at 57 percent ; and Manhattan , at 47 percent , according to city health data . The New York City Department of Health has enacted several programs promoting healthier living such as health fares in low-income areas and the Adopt A Bodega initiative , through which local bodegas or small delis and groceries agree to sell produce from family-owned , local farms , providing healthier foods to New Yorkers for reasonable prices . But the results , or rather lack of them , show that education and access are not enough . As Mayor Bloomberg has argued , the ban will have an effect because it follows the principle that if some people have smaller portions given to them , they will consequently drink less . The Mayor doesnt hope to prevent all people from drinking soda . In fact he emphasizes that this ban wouldnt come close to restricting personal freedoms because people would still be free to order however much soda they would like . The customers would simply have to be served multiple containers . This is not going to eradicate excessive sugar-intake , however a study by Dr. Brian Elbel , an assistant professor of population health and health policy at NYU Langone School of Medicine in New York City , determined that 62 % of drinks bought at restaurants were over the size limit and the result would be that the average consumer would take in 63 fewer calories per trip to a fast-food restaurant . 	The ban is necessary to confront the growing problem of obesity in NYC .
Thomas Jefferson said the purpose of government is to enable the people of a nation to live in safety and happiness . As an elected government led by Mayor Bloomberg , the government of New York City is obligated to lead the city in a positive direction . In Bloombergs case it was among his campaign promises To achieve the biggest public health gains in the nation and given his record with the smoking ban this kind of proposal is the obvious way to achieve such a goal . as the Soda ban is not an infringement upon personal rights but a necessary public health measure . The ban on large sodas does not prohibit the consumption of soda , it simply impedes negative choices for poor nutrition . The City has an obligation to promote healthy living as a form of keeping its citizenry safe and the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene clearly states Ourmission is to protect and promote the health of all New Yorkers . Obesity is a nationwide problem , and all over the United States , public health officials are wringing their hands saying , Oh , this is terrible , but Mayor Bloomberg said , New York City is not about wringing your hands ; it 's about doing something . The mayor continued by including how he viewed his duty : `` I think that 's what the public wants the mayor to do . 	The City has the obligation to protect its citizenry
Open access can be immensely beneficial for research . It increases the speed of access to publications and opens research up to a wider audience . Some of the most important research has been made much more accessible due to open access . The Human Genome Project would have been an immense success either way but it is doubtful that its economic impact of $ 796billion would have been realised without open access . The rest of the economy benefits too . It has been estimated that switching to open access would generate 100million of economic activity in the United Kingdom as a result of reduced research costs for business and shorter development as a result of being able to access a much broader range of research . Anon . , Open access research advantages , , Carr , Dave , and Kiley , Robert , Open access to science helps us all , , 13 April 2012 . 	Openness benefits research and the economy
Having paid for access to universities and the materials they provide for research students have a right to expect that they will have all the necessary materials available . Unfortunately this is not always the case . University libraries are unable to afford all the university journals they wish to have access to or need for their courses . Therefore any student who wants to go into areas not anticipated by the course they are enrolled with will find that they do not have access to the materials they require . They then face the cost of getting individual access to an online journal article which can be up to $ 42 , despite there being almost zero marginal cost to the publisher . This even affects the biggest and best resourced university libraries . Robert Darnton the director of Harvard Universitys library which pays $ 3.5 million per year for journal articles says The system is absurd and academically restrictive instead the answer will be open-access journal publishing . Sciverse , Pay-per-view , Elsevier , Sample , Ian , Harvard University says it cant afford journal publishers prices , , 24 April 2012 . 	Students would be able to benefit from being able to use resources at other universities
The United States University system is famously expensive and as a result it is probably the system in a developed country that has least public funding yet $ 346.8 billion was spent , mostly by the states , on higher education in 2008-9 . In Europe almost 85 % of universities funding came from government sources . Considering the huge amounts of money spent on universities by taxpayers they should be able to demand access to the academic work those institutions produce . Even in countries where there are tuition fees that make up some of the funding for the university it is right that the public should have access to these materials as the tuition fees are being paid for the personal teaching time provided by the lecturers not for the academics publications . Moreover those who have paid for a university course would benefit by the materials still being available to access after they have finished university Caplan , Bruan , Correction : Total Government Spending on Higher Education , Library of Economics and Liberty , 16 November 2012 , Vught , F. , et al . , Funding Higher Education : A View Across Europe , Ben Jongbloed Center for Higher Education Policy Studies University of Twente , 2010 . 	Most universities are publically funded so should have to be open with their materials .
A focus on domestic football and domestic footballers would encourage the public to get around their local sides . Therefore , this plan would be fruitful for club football and its relationship with the local community . Once the local team was a real source of local identity , with many home-grown players proud to wear the shirt of the club they grew up with . Now players have no local feeling and move often in search of higher wages or European experience . Loyalty is an undervalued trait in modern football . How can fans identify with a club full of overseas players who will be gone in a season or two , and who otherwise neglect to support local youth talent ? 	It will encourage fans to support their local clubs
The six-plus-five rule , first tabled by FIFA in 2008 , would require all side to have six home-grown players in all starting elevens . As the sports governing body , if the proposal was voted in by member states all state football associations would be forced to hand out penalties , whether financial or points , to teams that did not meet the criteria of the new rule . The rule purports to increase both the protection and development of local players in local environments , whilst also permitting the transfers of high-profile foreigners that have been attributed with the rise in prestige and profile of many of the European leagues and clubs . 	The sports governing body , FIFA , wishes to implement a six plus five that would be enforced by each member association
This plan would be good for world football . At present poorer nations -LRB- e.g . in Africa or South America -RRB- , or those where football isnt as well developed -LRB- e.g . Australia , the USA -RRB- , lose all their best players at an early age to the rich European leagues . This weakens their own leagues and can lead to the public losing interest in football . Poor quality games and loss of public support for domestic clubs also means little money comes into the game from ticket sales , television or sponsorship , so nothing goes into grounds , training or youth systems . It is also hard to put a good national side together when the best players hardly ever spend any time in their own country . 	Restrictions would prevent the poaching of the best youngsters from poor nations
Reducing the number of foreign players would be good for the national team . Current rules mean that only a few domestic players get a chance to compete at the highest level , and the national side suffers as a result . So while , for example , English clubs with the ability and clout to sign foreign players have done very well in the Champions League recently , the English national team has performed badly . English youth are consistently overlooked for places in the best sides in favour of more talented , more experienced foreigners who offer short-term success . Limiting the number of foreigners would force clubs to give more local players a chance to develop , and subsequently improve the quality of the national side . 	It will improve the quality of the national team
Limiting the number of overseas players will be good for home-grown sportsmen . At present only a tiny handful of the best native players will get a chance to play for top clubs due to their profit and success motives . This means that talented young players see no reason to work hard and develop their game , because it is so unlikely they will get a chance to play at the top level . And clubs dont have a reason to seek out local youngsters and train them , as it is easier to buy a fully trained player from abroad . Limiting the number of foreign players would create incentives for both players and clubs to make the most of their talents . As a result , domestic crowds would rise as quality would improve proportionally with the development of local talent . 	It is good for the development of home-grown players and therefore , the quality of domestic leagues
President Yanukovych is Ukraines legitimate President . He is therefore perfectly at liberty to allow Russian troops into his country to keep the peace in much the same way as countries around the world welcome US troops on their soil as protection from external threats or UN peacekeepers to keep the peace domestically . Yanukovych in a letter to Putin called on the President of Russia , Mr. Putin , asking him to use the armed forces of the Russian Federation to establish legitimacy , peace , law and order , stability and defending the people of Ukraine . 	Invited by the legitimate government
The current government in Ukraine is the result of an illegal coup . On the 21 February Yanukovych and the opposition in Ukraine agreed to EU proposals that restored the 2004 Ukrainian constitution and set Presidential elections for later in 2014 . The two sides were to create a coalition and form a national unity government . Thus Yanukovych was to remain President until the next elections . The opposition however ignored this deal . As Putin puts it They immediately seized his residence rather than giving him a chance to fulfil the agreement ... He didnt have any chance of being reelected . The Ukrainian opposition used illegal and unconstitutional means to effect regime change . Russia therefore has a right to act to protect those who there has been an armed seizure of power . 	Necessary response to an illegal coup
It is the people of Crimea who are important and their interests should be considered . Putin told the Federation Council that Russia is responding to a threat to the lives of citizens of the Russian Federation and the personnel of the armed forces of the Russian Federation on Ukrainian territory . Russia needs to protect both the Russian citizens who are in Crimea and the ethnic Russians who look to Moscow not Kiev . The Crimean parliament has agreed to hold a referendum on 25 May on Autonomous Republic of Crimea has state sovereignty and is a part of Ukraine , in accordance with treaties and agreements . This was put forward to 16 March with two options ; Do you support Crimea 's reunification with Russia ? Do you support the restoration of the Constitution of the Crimean Republic dated 1992 and Crimea 's status as a part of Ukraine ? The 97 % vote for joining Russia and 83 % turnout conclusively show that this is the will of the Crimean people . 	Need to protect Russian civilians
Bovine TB is a disease that affects cattle . When a herd is infected the animals in question need to be slaughtered to prevent the disease getting into the foodchain . The UKs Chief vet , Nigel Gibbons argues that the risk of infection of humans will increase if there is no cull . Since the protection of badgers in 1992 there have been increases in the numbers of badgers and at the same time an increase in infections . In 1992 there were only about 800 infected herds but by 2012 that had increased to 9000 . Scotland , which has only 10 % of the UKs badgers compared to 25 % in the South West of England has very low prevalence of bovine TB . It seems clear that we need to halt the spread of bovine TB to prevent the infection of humans and a badger cull has to be a part of the answer . Bawden , Tom , Chief vet : We need badger cull to prevent spread of TB to humans , , 30 May 2013 , Bovine tuberculosis statistics and costs , , -LRB- chart f and j -RRB- 	A cull is needed to prevent bovine TB
Without a cull farmers will simply take the issue into their own hands in order to protect their herds . If the government will not act on the issue of badgers then farmers will feel they are left with no choice . According to groups that aim to protect badgers there are already an estimated 9,000 badgers killed each year through gassing , poisoning , and baiting . Jenkinson , Stephen , Protect the Badger , Why Bother ? , , 	If there is no cull farmers will simply carry out their own killing
A cull would be much cheaper than the cost of compensating farmers for their losses as a result of bovine TB . The cost of the disease to the taxpayer is estimated to be 1billion over the next ten years mostly as a result of compensation payments for farmers . This cost also damages farmers livelihoods as the average cost of a TB breakdown on a farm is 34,000 of which the farmer has to pay 12,000 . By contrast the cost of the cull is estimated to be 1000 per square kilometre per year meaning the trials for the culls would cost a total of 2.2 million . This then is considerably cheaper than the cost of the disease so will be saving both farmers and taxpayers a considerable cost . Bovine TB -LRB- tuberculosis -RRB- , 26 March 2013 , Agencies , How badger cull policy was reached , , 27 August 2013 , 	A cull would save on the cost of compensation to farmers
If the West did decide to reduce aid to African states it could pressure African states to change their policies on homosexuality . Africa is renowned for the dependency on aid . Analysts claim that this dependency negates the need for African economies to reform , relying instead on foreign governments and NGOs . This reliance on aid could be exploited to alter policy within those African countries that are unable to act economically independently . This policy has been successful in the past . When Britain cut 19m to Malawi in 2011 for arresting two men for marrying ; there was a reversal of government policy in the African state and all anti-homosexual laws were suspended . The equality created by this policy change would allow greater access to retroviral drugs and other HIV/AIDS treatment for the gay community . Laws outlawing homosexuality , and the stigma of the false connection between HIV and homosexuality , have decreased the accessibility of the gay community to treatment . Corrections to these laws , from the economic pressure of aid withdrawal , would allow those with HIV/AIDS in the gay community to seek help without fear of rejections or prosecution . 	Cutting aid could produce a change in policy direction
From a moral perspective , it is wrong to discriminate against someone for their sexuality . Everyone should have equal rights ; Hilary Clinton stated that gay rights are human rights , the derogation of such rights is a serious moral affront . There is evidence that homosexuality is not optional . Discriminating on sexual orientation is therefore the same as discriminating upon factors such as race and ethnicity . Even if changeable it would be the same as discrimination on the basis of identity or religion . Same sex relations are victimless which calls in to question whether it could ever be defined as something to be criminalised . Whilst some may point to male on male rape , these figures are low compared to male on female rape . In the U.S. where homosexuality is legal , only 9 % of rape victims were male and only a small proportion of those being male on male . Criminalising and institutionally embedding hatred against homosexuality has served to alienate many Africans from their families and communities . Discrimination on the basis of homosexuality is not something any donor would want to endorse even implicitly it is therefore morally right to cut the aid . 	Persecution of homosexuals is morally wrong
Mobile communication is very useful and its main use is not to keep us safe but to make life easier . It is clearly useful that we can phone to ask to be picked up rather than always having to set a meeting time in advance . It is equally useful that a mobile phone can tell us if it is likely to rain , or if the train is late . We dont need this information , but it certainly is helpful , and it is just as helpful for children as for adults . 	Mobile phones enable us to keep in touch
Having a mobile phone helps us to learn in a lot of different ways . First we learn about technology ; about how to use the mobile phone . Second most phones today have apps -LRB- programs -RRB- to enable learning using the phone , or else through the internet . Phones can access online courses and lessons which can be provided in fun ways and can in some cases instantly tell you if you have the right answer . It may even sometimes be possible to do homework on a phone and send it to your teacher . Even without the internet phones can be used to provide short assignments , or to provide reminders to study . 	Mobile phones help us to learn
Mobile phones mean we are never out of contact with our friends , parents , guardians , or if necessary our school . They provide a way we can quickly contact someone if we are in trouble or are lost . Mobiles are most clearly helpful if caught in a large scale disaster such as a flood or earthquake as we can tell rescuers where we are . But they are also helpful for every day security . With a mobile phone parents know where we are and can be quickly contacted if we feel unsafe somewhere . 	Mobile phones make sure that we are safe
Mobile phones bring us increased independence . Being able to use a mobile phone is clearly a basic skill to allow children to be independent . It means that they are not dependent on an adult being with them for parents to know where they are . The main reason for parents being unwilling to let children out on their own is fear for their safety . This is a fear that mobiles help prevent . This increased independence has other benefits , such as teaching us to be responsible for ourselves . 	Mobile phones lead to increased independence
Having the ICC prosecute Yanukovych currently faces a major difficulty ; Ukraine has not ratified the Rome statute . It is therefore outside the jurisdiction of the court . Technically this means the parliament cant ask for ICC prosecution as there is no State Party to refer the situation to the prosecutor . Clearly there is an easy solution to this ; Ukraine should ratify the statute . This would have the benefit of reaffirming international criminal law , showing that it can be beneficial in a crisis , and increasing it as an accepted norm . ICC , The States Parties to the Rome Statute , , accessed 28/2/2014 , Rome Statute , Article 14 	Would mean Ukraine signing up to the ICC
Even before most of the violence by riot police in February some experts were suggesting that Yanukovych had committed crimes against humanity crimes committed by a state against a civilian population . Professor Alexander J Motyl argued The Yanukovych regime may already be guilty of imprisonment or other severe deprivation of physical liberty in violation of fundamental rules of international law and persecution against any identifiable group or collectivity on political , racial , national , ethnic , cultural , religious , gender or other grounds . Now at the very least murder can be added to that count . Moryl , 2014 , 	Yanukovych committed crimes against humanity
Justice for Yanukovych should be international simply because it would be a much better guarantor of a fair trial . The Ukrainian justice system is unfortunately corrupt , and at the behest of prosecutors ; it has an amazing conviction rate of 99.8 % . This is because judges are they are only appointed for five years then the government confirms tenure if it believes they have been voting the right way . Yulia Tymoshenko , an opponent of Yanukovych , was imprisoned for making a deal with President Putin to ensure gas supplies something that was a humanitarian necessity to ensure Russia did not freeze Ukraine into submission . Robertson , Geoffrey , Yulia Tymoshenko 's trial was a travesty of justice , , 23 February 2014 , 	The Ukrainian justice system is broken
Were the desecration and destruction of items and sites of cultural heritage to be an internationally recognised crime against humanity , people would be more reluctant in causing either intended or collateral damage -LRB- in a conflict -RRB- to them . Under the status quo , UNESCO conventions alone are insufficient to protect cultural property . Firstly , it provides insufficient protection , since even high-value cultural property under enhanced protection can be legally targeted in a conflict , if it is being used by opposition forces . Moreover , the current conventions lack sufficient deterrents to back-up its protective measures . For example , US forces set up military bases in and around ancient Babylon during the Iraq war and even used parts of the ancient site to make sandbags . This constitutes a violation of the UNESCO conventions , because US forces actively caused damage to the cultural property and also , in locating their forces there , made the site of ancient Babylon a legitimate military target for opposing forces . -LSB- 1 -RSB- US forces were not concerned with potentially damaging cultural property or going against UNESCO conventions , simply because there were insufficient penalties in place to deter them from doing so . By treating the destruction of cultural property as a crime against humanity , rather than simply a violation of UNESCO conventions , the protection of cultural heritage is seen as an increased moral imperative . Making such crimes punishable by the ICC alongside crimes like genocide would add a deterrent factor and make it less likely people would deliberately destroy cultural property . -LSB- 1 -RSB- CENTCOM Historical / Cultural Advisory Group : The Impact of War on Iraqs Cultural Heritage : Operation Iraqi Freedom , accessed 20/9/12 , 	Making destruction of cultural property a crime against humanity would ensure it is protected .
Cultural property is important for many reasons . In this argument , its significance as part of our world cultural heritage will be assessed , while in the second argument , its local significance is examined . Sites of cultural heritage often carry a large degree of aesthetic value . Renowned World Heritage sites like the Coliseum in Rome or the Pyramids of Giza or the Forbidden City in Beijing are truly stunning and constitute a masterpiece of architecture and a celebration of what the human mind and human culture are capable of . Their stunning beauty alone is sufficient to warrant their protection . However cultural property is more than just aesthetically valuable they tell a story of human existence . Everything that makes up our society -LRB- our moral and aesthetic values , our language , our traditions , our way of life etc . -RRB- derives from our ancestors . Cultural property be it in the form of archaeological sites , monuments or texts and art , provide our only means of connecting with our past . This is invaluable because of the enormous potential for understanding different cultures around the world and how they interact and often conjoin with each other . It offers opportunities for us to learn from the past and forge a better future . Recent atrocities such as the looting of museums in Bagdad and the damage caused to parts of ancient Babylon during the recent Iraq War are hugely harmful to the international community . The loss of part of our world heritage is even greater when one realises that the harms do not only affect our present day society , but all of future humanity . The far-reaching and global nature of this harm is sufficient for it to be considered a crime against humanity . Indeed , international practice in this eld indicates deliberate extensive destruction of cultural heritage may be included among international crimes . -LSB- 1 -RSB- The International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia -LRB- ICTY -RRB- , for example , places the destruction of buildings dedicated to religion , or of historical and artistic monuments among war crimes -LRB- that are part of the broader concept of , or crimes against the peace and the security of mankind . -LSB- 2 -RSB- It is therefore evident that despite the lack of a global mechanism -LRB- such as the ICC -RRB- that currently condemns the destruction of cultural property as crimes against humanity , international precedent with the ICTY suggests it would be perfectly reasonable to do so . -LSB- 1 -RSB- Francioni , Francesco and Lanzerini , Federico : The Destruction of the Buddhas of Bamiyan and International Law , EJIL -LRB- 2003 -RRB- , Vol . 14 No . 4 , 619651 , Oxford Journals , -LSB- 2 -RSB- ibid 	Our world cultural heritage is extremely important and its destruction would constitute a crime against humanity .
Items and sites of cultural heritage are often destroyed for discriminatory and oppressive reasons . The Maoist onslaught on all old aspects of Chinese culture is a prime example while the destruction of the Buddhas of Bamiyan in Afghanistan by the Taliban in 2001 is another recent example . These were violent , ideologically driven attacks on the part of the state against segments of that states own society . The Buddhas of Bamiyan were destroyed by the Taliban simply because they were not part of the Islamic society they were trying to create . Such explicitly discriminatory attacks are particularly harmful to cultures that are the victims of the attacks for two reasons . Firstly because the cultural property in question has increased cultural , religious or historical value for them , and secondly because such discriminatory acts attack the very identity of people part of that cultural group . The international community has a duty to protect cultural groups -LRB- especially minority groups -RRB- from discrimination . The international community in the form of the United Nations General Assembly has recognised attacks on religious sites as being discrimination based upon belief . -LSB- 1 -RSB- Moreover , the ICTY treated discriminatory attacks against cultural property during the break-up of Yugoslavia , as a crime against humanity . Once again , therefore , international precedent facilitates the prosecution of those responsible of those responsible for the desecration or destruction of cultural property . -LSB- 1 -RSB- United Nations General Assembly , Elimination of all forms of intolerance and of discrimination based on religion or belief , 19 December 2006 , Resolution 61/161 , 	The desecration and destruction of cultural property is often discriminatory and attacks peoples identity .
Large scale cyber attacks can result in substantial harms to the state equivalent to those of an armed attack . Many states are dependent on flawless functioning of government and financial services online , and attacking them would cause mass disruption . For example , massive cyber attacks can cause serious disruption to economy by targeting financial , banking and commercial services ; they can target government websites and steal confidential information that would compromise country 's security , as was the case with USA in 2007 -LSB- 10 -RSB- ; they could target power grids and shut down infrastructure on a massive scale across the country . All these instances cause disruption and leave the targeted country vulnerable with the government unable to operate successfully . This way , for instance , a large scale cyber attack from Russia on Georgia 2008 caused massive disruption to government , banking services , and communication within and outside of the country -LSB- 11 -RSB- . For these reasons USA 's Pentagon decided to consider a cyber attack that ` produces the death , damage , destruction or high-level disruption that a traditional military attack would cause ' an act of war -LSB- 12 -RSB- . Given the damage of possible attacks to the state , large-scale cyber attacks should be considered an act of war . 	Cyber attacks can do serious damage to the state
Currently international law on how a state can respond to cyber attacks by another state is lacking : it only covers cyber attacks during armed conflicts or those are tantamount to an armed conflict -LSB- 15 -RSB- . An attacked state thus has no legitimate means to respond to cyber attacks . This leaves them no option of self-defence , which is an important element in international law . Moreover , without international law regulating cyber warfare between states , there is no actual illegitimacy for cyber attacks . Despite their far-reaching and grave consequences , cyber attacks by other states do not feature heavily in the news . Few people actually know about cyber attacks between USA and Iran , which would be an unimaginable situation should these states resorted to military attacks . This apparent lack of condemnation and attention in the wider society to cyber attacks further decreases ability of the state to defend themselves or even call out an aggressor publically as there is little to fear from global opinion for such actions . 	Currently there is no way to legally respond to cyber attacks by other states
The world has developed along with the new digital medium . Lots of crucial business and government services have moved online . While the military modernised in relation to digital developments , a definition of an act of war has not caught up with it yet . It is now being suggested that the digital domain is the new realm of warfare for the 21 century . States have already been using cyber attacks in hostilities and as acts of aggression against each other . For instance , USA and Israel have released a virus Stuxnet that sabotaged parts of Iran 's nuclear programme in 2010 , followed by retaliatory cyber attacks by Iran on USA -LSB- 7 -RSB- . In the 1998 war over Kosovo the USA successfully hacked Serbia 's air defence systems , which left Serbia vulnerable to air attacks -LSB- 8 -RSB- -LSB- 9 -RSB- . Cyber attacks are thus attacks that can be perpetrated by states against other states in an effort to weaken the other state , the same way armed attacks are used . Given these realities large scale cyber attacks should be considered acts of war . 	Cyber attacks are no different from traditional attacks
Firstly , Libya did not attack US soldiers and did not harm US citizens . Given that this is true , then engagement with Libya to begin with goes against the spirit of US law . Given that the situation is not an emergency for the U.S. circumventing congress in order to prosecute the war is incredibly harmful as it undermines one of the core institutions in U.S. democracy . Further , the use of international organisations such as the UN and NATO to circumvent congress has bad ramifications for the future as in doing this the U.S. government has significantly lowered the burden required to go to war should it wish to do so in the future . This is problematic because the decision to go to war should never be one that is taken lightly . Should the U.S. wish to go to war again then it might end up in a situation such as Vietnam , the conflict that inspired the creation of the war powers act .1 	US intervention is not consistent with other aspects of US law
There are multiple arguments indicating why the U.S. might be engaged in hostilities under the War Powers Act , enough so that this single argument could make an entire two person case . The U.S. has engaged in sustained hostilities in Libya which have resulted in regime change within the country . The President himself admits that causing regime change would be unjustifiable in his speech justifying the war by pledging that broadening our military mission to include regime change would be a mistake .2 However , regime change was the result of the mission and NATO and U.S. played a significant role in facilitating that change . Secondly , the War Powers act covers the U.S. fighting in a supportive role in wars . `` For purposes of this chapter , the term ` introduction of United States Armed Forces ' includes the assignment of members of such armed forces to command , coordinate , participate in the movement of , or accompany the regular or irregular military forces of any foreign country or government when such military forces are engaged , or there exists an imminent threat that such forces will become engaged , in hostilities .3 Hence the U.S. is acting in violation of this condition . Further , troops do not need to be on the ground to call the Libyan engagement hostilities . U.S. men and women have firstly died in the conflict , but secondly if troops were needed on the ground for a war , a U.S. president could potentially fire a thousand missiles at a country without the engagement being considered a war . Further , even though the U.S. gave powers to NATO , it maintained a lead role in this coalition force . As such , the engagement should still be subject to U.S. laws and rules . Finally , the sheer cost of the engagement to the U.S. taxpayer implies that it should be considered a war . The cost of the war has been more than $ 1 million per day .1 	The United States engaged in `` hostilities '' under War Powers
Firstly , the UN intervention in Libya wrongly rests on NATO authority . The use of NATO to circumvent congressional approval in this situation violates the initial agreement regarding the participation of the U.S. in NATO that was ratified by congress . As such , even if the U.S. is legitimate in going to war and the circumvention of war powers can be justified , the circumvention using NATO can not . Secondly , the use of UN approval to circumvent congress means that the UN charter and the ideals of the UN have been placed by the government at a higher level of value than of the US constitution . If this is the case then the government has undermined the validity of the US constitution and through doing that has undermined all laws within the U.S. which is harmful should the U.S. wish to project power in a way that is contrary to the UNs wishes .1 	The Libya intervention lacks sufficient international authority
Mothers who stay at home benefit society as a whole . The money that they save on childcare can be spent in other areas such as pensions , healthcare , or environmental issues . Stay at home mothers are more likely to have time to be involved with their community . Volunteers are needed in many spheres of education such as PTAs -LRB- Parent-Teacher Associations -RRB- , classroom assistants or organisers of school trips and sharing skills -LRB- News Talk Radio -RRB- . However there are many other areas where they can make a difference as they have the time , such as volunteering for charities or community groups and looking after other parents children . Those mothers who stay home are able to become more fully involved in these aspects of community life in the process making the community a much better place to bring up children . 	It is better for society if mothers stay home .
Early childhood is the most influential period in a childs development . It is in this period that a child learns which social rules are to be obeyed and how emotions , such as anger , are expressed . Also it is the period of time when attachment begins -LRB- see attachment theory authors such as Donald Winnicott or John Bowlby , also discussed in scrapbook below -RRB- , and many psychologists believe this attachment is essential to normal social and emotional development in the child . Therefore the more time the mother spends with the child at this time , the stronger this attachment will be . Mothers who stay at home can ensure their children get the best possible start in life . They can help the child learn how to appropriately express emotions , and create a loving bond . This bond will ensure that they know what their children are doing , how to make them happy , and when something is wrong . When the children are older , a housemother is more able to monitor her childrens activities and therefore will know if the children are late home from school or tardy going to school and therefore will be able to notice any problems . Housemothers will also be better equipped to take their children to other after school activities or social events . For these reasons , if the mother stays at home when the child is young , she can better ensure that the child has a safer and more varied experience later on in life . 1 . Patterson , Child development 2 . Bowlby and King , ` Fifty Years of Attachment Theory : Recollections of Donald Winnicott and John Bowlby . ' 	What is best for children .
In many religions and cultures the role of the mother is a sacred one . The bible , specifically in scriptures Timothy 5:14 and Titus 2 : 4-5 , focuses on womens role as keepers of the house , who should bear children and raise them in the way of the lord . In Proverbs 31 : 28-31 women as a whole are praised for the successful raising of children and home , and as such this role is valued more than a mother working . In the Quran , mothers are regarded highly -LRB- e.g . 17:23 , 31:14 , 46:15 -RRB- . The prophet Muhammad even stated that ` Paradise lies at the feet of your mother ' . The Islamic Scholar Majmoo ' Fatawa wa Maqalat Mutanawwi'ah explains that within the Quran She -LSB- the mother -RSB- is to be given precedence over and above the father . Yet for a mother to earn this regard , she must stay in the home above all else , and this involves not gaining employment outside the home when caring for children . Hindu scriptures similarly often state that one must worship his or her mother first -LRB- Vanparva313 .60 , Apastamba Dharmsutra i . 10.28.9 -RRB- . Thus for many religions the role of mother is sacred . This means that the woman should be viewed as privileged and valued as a housemother , a god-given position that is not available to the father . In secular circles as well , often women look after children because in most countries they originally receive more maternity leave than a father does paternity leave , or are necessary carers because they provide breast milk . In this case the mothers choice to look after the child at an early age is merely a practical one , and if during this time a closer bond develops between mother and child , then it seems easier that they should continue to care for the child . 1 . 	The role of the mother is sacred .
The BBC has previously recorded that in the UK childcare options are often unaffordable , and families with two working parents are often not much better off than families with one working parent -LRB- October 2003 -RRB- . There is more recent evidence of this from Avivas Family Finances Report in 2011 , which found parents questioning whether they can both afford to work , due to the high cost of childcare . Workingmums.net reports a similar situation in the USA , and from anecdotal evidence , such as a number of blogs , it appears this situation is common worldwide . If this is the case , then maybe it is logical for mothers to save on childcare costs and give up their own work . Furthermore , it is undeniable that a professional carer who looks after a group of children can not give as much singular attention to one child , or know all the specific whims of each child . Psychologist believes that this leaves the children desperate for a single adult to shower them with affection , and a denial of this desire can lead to higher levels of aggression by the time they reach primary school . However , a housemother would both be able to give the attention and know the details , and avoid an increase in these levels of aggression . Biddulph , ` Raising Boys : Why Boys are Different - and How to Help Them Become Happy and Well-Balanced Men ' 	Childcare options are bad , and often unaffordable for poorer families .
Term limits are a necessary check on executive power to prevent an over mighty executive . Whereas the legislature and judiciary are composed of many competing views , with members of various parties and outlooks represented , the executive of a country speaks with a single voice . In legislatures , party leaders are not the sole sources of power , with factions and alternative nexuses of influence forming throughout that branch of government . Executive power , on the other hand , rests solely in the hands of the leader , usually a president . The leader has full power over the policies of the executive branch of government . Cabinets , which form part of the executive in practice , are usually directly answerable to the leader , and ministers can be dismissed if they are uncooperative or dispute the leaders policies . Even in parliamentary systems , leaders with a majority and a strong party whip can command the same powers as a strong president , if not more . It is thus necessary to have a check on the highly individual power that is the executive . Term limits are the best such check . Term limits allow leaders to enact their policies over a set time period and then usher them out of office . This is essential , because too much power in the hands of a single individual for too long can upset the balance of power in a country and shift power in favour of the executive , thus damaging the protections to society that checks provide . This is exactly what happened in the United Kingdom under Tony Blair where from the start cabinet government virtually disappeared Former Cabinet Secretary Lord Butler said In the eight months I was cabinet secretary when Tony Blair was prime minister , the only decision the cabinet took was about the Millennium Dome , and power continued to be ever more centralized in response to terrorism . 	The executive branch of government , having no countervailing voices to the leader s within it , must be checked by limiting tenancy in office .
Incumbency provides a huge election advantage . Leaders and politicians generally , almost always win re-election . Such has been the case in the United States , for example , where presidents are almost always re-elected for a second term . Leaders are re-elected because they have better name recognition both with the electorate and with lobby groups . People have a tendency to vote for those who they recognize , and firms tend to support past winners who will likely continue to benefit their interests . This problem has become particularly serious in developing world in which revolutionary leaders from the original independence movements are still politically active . These leaders often command huge followings and mass loyalty , which they use to maintain power in spite of poor decisions and corruption in many cases . Such has been the case in Zimbabwe with Robert Mugabe winning presidential elections in spite of mass corruption and mismanagement . Only recently have the people finally voted against him , but it was too late , as his power had become too entrenched to unseat him . The uphill battle that will always exist to unseat incumbents makes term limits necessary . Countries need new ideas and new leaders to enact them . Old leaders using election machines to retain power do their country a disservice . Power is best used when it changes hands over time in order allow for dynamic new solutions to be mooted in a changing world . 	Term limits check the power of incumbency as an election-winning tool and allow new and energetic leaders and ideas to flourish .
Power has a strong tendency to corrupt ; it is highly intoxicating . For this reason , it should not be left in the hands of one person for too long . When a leader is firmly entrenched , he may seek to enrich himself at the expense of the public . He may seek to shower benefices on family and allies in order to maintain and strengthen his powerful position . Without term limits the executive runs the risk of becoming a personal fief , rather than the office of first servant of the people , as it should be . This is seen particularly in parts of the developing world where leaders use state funds to generate electoral support from key groups and to maintain the loyalty of essential supporters . A current example of this is in Venezuela where Hugo Chavez has been able to monopolize power to the point where it is unclear who his successor would be should he die suddenly . Term limits serve to limit the ability of individuals to enact self-aggrandizing policies and to retain power indefinitely . Instead , by maintaining term limits , leaders have only a limited time in power , which tends to shift their focus toward genuinely benefiting the public . 	The longer a single leader remains in power , the more entrenched his grip becomes , and the more likely he is to use his office to his personal advantage .
A focus of a leader who is looking toward the next election is on getting votes . It is often the case that hard decisions need to be made by leaders , but it is difficult for them to do so when they are concerned with being re-elected . A leader has an incentive to put tough decisions off if he can retain power by doing so . When constrained by term limits , leaders must make the most of their limited time in office , resulting in greater prioritization of difficult decisions and reform . Furthermore , the need to constantly fight elections places leaders in the pocket of lobby-groups and election supporters to a greater degree , as they will always need to go back to them for support , and thus can not make decisions that are in the national interest alone . While there will always be some of this behaviour , it is curtailed by term limits , as leaders in their final term will not be beholden to as many special interests as they can not run again . Furthermore , leaders who develop strong party structures can influence the choice of their successor , ensuring that they have a legacy . In this way term limits encourage the development of party-based systems , rather than personality based systems of government . 	Freeing the executive from re-election concerns can help focus attention on the public interest
The Olympics have been hijacked so many times for political purposes that competition `` for the glory of sport '' can not help but have been smothered . The Munich disaster in 1972 is the most shocking : nine Israeli athletes were taken hostage by Palestinian terrorists and eventually killed . Yet the Games were only suspended for 34 hours ; it is as if those who play the Games were less important than the spectacle of the Games . When the USA boycotted the 1980 Moscow Games , they devalued still further the supremacy of sport for its own sake . In 2008 , a number of state leaders decided to boycott the Beijing Opening Ceremony in protest of the Chinese crackdown in Tibet . In so doing , they essentially pull the focus of the event away from the athletes and sport and use it instead as a political tool . That is not the purpose of an event founded specifically to grant athletes the platform to shine . 	The Olympic Games is hijacked for political purposes , smothering their purported purpose as 'for the glory of sport '
The massive commercialisation of the Games erodes the idea of taking part for its own sake : with so much sponsorship money at stake , winning at all costs is the inevitable aim . The rule of the sponsors seems more important than the sport : interrupting television coverage of the events to advertise is symptomatic of this , permitting McDonalds to sponsor a sports event is another . As is the auctioning off of ` virtually every aspect of the Games to the highest bidder . ' Whilst a recent report indicates that sport is still at the centre of the Olympics , ` the volume of commercial messages drowns out any competing narratives apart from sports ' -LRB- Multinational Monitor , 2008 , p. 8 -RRB- . The Olympic Dream is that competing narrative attempting to weave the values of friendship , respect and excellence into the home viewer . Furthermore , corporate sponsorship concentrates on the richest countries ' athletes . The United States , for example , benefits from huge funding from over 100 corporations for its team and can thus train them to far higher levels than developing countries can -LRB- Multinational Monitor , 2008 -RRB- . As one of these 100-plus companies , Citi paid $ 30 million purely to be the ` official bank of the 2012 United States Olympic Team ' -LRB- Belson , 2011 -RRB- . This prevents competition on an equal footing , one feature of the Olympic Dream . 	Commercialization of the Games erodes the idea of taking part for its own sake .
The use of performance-enhancing drugs issufficiently common in the Olympics to be a cause of concern . Not only do they reduce the victories of those who take them to meaninglessness but they cast aspersions over the efforts of all other athletes . As Simon Barnes noted in Beijing in 2008 , the world is full of people declaring that they dont care who wins what at the Olympics , because theyre all on something -LRB- Barnes , 2008 -RRB- . New drugs such as the growth hormone EPO are very difficult to detect , and the Olympic authorities are not doing enough to overcome the problem stirring the negative public opinion . Though the IOC claims to be clamping down on the drug problem , there were still 26 cases of doping at Athens in 2004 , and 20 cases in Beijing -LRB- Allen , 2011 -RRB- , such cases only indicate the athletes taking known substances , or substances that can be tested for . The Olympic motto of faster , higher , stronger is fatally undermined if athletes achievements are the result not of physical and mental strain , but chemical concoction . 	The widespread use of performance-enhancing drugs undermines the Olympics ' pretensions to fairness .
The IOC and many national Olympic committees lack integrity , and this kills the Games ' spirit and pretensions to fair play . Officials working for the Salt Lake City 2002 bid are believed to have spent more than $ 1 million on ` gifts and favors ' for IOC members in an effort to bribe their way to the victory . Furthermore , in response to a BBC programme in 2010 which highlighted the corruption of members of FIFA , football 's governing body , the IOC was forced to open an investigation into three of its own members who held posts at both organizations . The inability of the IOC to stamp out the corruption of its own members , or otherwise alter its voting system , reflects poorly on its commitment to excellence and fairness . If the IOC is charged with ensuring the propagation of the Olympic Dream , it is setting a poor example . 	The Olympic Committee grants the Olympics to the highest bidder , making a mockery of the Olympic ideal of fair play
The modern Olympic athlete is no longer driven ` for the glory of sport ' , but by an appetite for excellence that can , and often does , override any notion of fair-play or respect . The sense of fraternity that Olympic athletes once had is becoming lost in the antagonistic rivalries between nations and individual athletes and the pressure not merely to compete , but to win . We should have some sympathy with athletes sometimes : very often , they are compelled to take drugs by their team 's coach . The Chinese swimming team , for example , was beset at Atlanta by claims that they had adopted a systematic and untraceable doping regime to improve their athletes , with remarkable results . To overcome this , the IOC Conference in February 1999 recommended that coaches should take the Olympic Oath as well as athletes , however the document itself is so tarnished by the regularity with which it is ignored that it is fast becoming a farce . The Olympics therefore may still be a great event , with many great athletes but it no longer carries the associations with respect and fair-play that made its Dream so appealing to so many . 	The Olympics is no longer about competition and fair play , but which athletes and coaches can go to the furthest extremes simply to win .
Nation-building has been a central element of post-invasion planning for the Afghanistan and Iraq invasions , as well as possible future wars . In Afghanistan in particular , invasion coupled with subsequent nation building has been successful in constructing relatively stable political institutions and promoting economic development . In addition , efforts have been made to promote women 's rights and tackle extremist ideology . While the military element of invasion can forcefully disrupt terrorist networks and deter future attacks , nation-building can complement invasion through effectively tackling many of the social roots of terrorism by building stable and legitimate political and economic institutions to facilitate democratic governance and economic growth . Humanitarian assistance and economic empowerment also offers people an alternative to joining terrorist groups . 	Invasion and 'nation-building ' can tackle the social roots of terrorism and repair weak state institutions .
As Tony Blairs former special adviser to foreign affairs Robert Cooper has argued , failed pre-modern states those without a domestic monopoly on the use of force and stable state institutions pose significant threats to international peace and security because they can provide a base for non-state actors -LRB- including terrorists -RRB- to plan and launch attacks without a hindrance . Invasion , or defensive imperialism -LRB- Afghanistan providing an example -RRB- , may be the only effective response to this threat -LSB- 1 -RSB- . The instability in Afghanistan under Taliban rule , for example , made it impossible to rely on the Afghanistan government to pursue Al Qaeda . Furthermore , the Taliban effectively inferred Al Qaeda with governmental functions , including the projection of force abroad -LSB- 2 -RSB- . In cases such as this , interstate cooperation is ineffectual and armed action may be necessary . Even more alarming still is the possibility of rogue states cooperating with international terrorists , and allowing terrorist groups to acquire Weapons of Mass Destruction -LRB- WMDs -RRB- or chemical , biological , radiological , and nuclear -LRB- CBRN -RRB- weapons . Pre-emptive military action can protect against these threats -LSB- 3 -RSB- . Invasion can also act as a deterrent to other regimes thinking of supporting terrorism as it demonstrates to them that allowing attacks upon other countries will result in massive retaliation and the swift overthrow of the sponsoring regime . -LSB- 1 -RSB- Robert Cooper , Why we still need empires , , Sunday 7 April 2002 -LSB- -RSB- . Also see Max Boot , Pirates , Terrorism and Failed States , , December 9 2008 -LSB- -RSB- . Also see Sebastian Mallaby , The Reluctant Imperialist : Terrorism , Failed States , and the case for American Empire , March/April 2002 , -LSB- -RSB- -LSB- 2 -RSB- Sean D. Murphy , HARv . INT ' L L.J . 41 , 50 -LRB- 2002 -RRB- -LSB- 3 -RSB- Cordesman , Anthony H. -LRB- 2002 -RRB- , , -LRB- Westport CT : Center for Strategic Studies -RRB- 	In many instances only invasion can effectively disrupt terrorist networks that exploit failed states or are provided with support or sanctuaries by rogue states .
Article 51 of the U.N. Charter upholds a state 's right to use force in self-defense against states that harbor terrorists . Article 51 makes reference to a state 's fundamental right to self-defense , and allows states to undertake certain measures in the event of an armed attack . Allies may also assist in `` collective self-defense '' . In the case of Afghanistan , the United States and its allies made distinct references to Article 51 in justifying military action against the Taliban regime . Therefore , invasion in response to terrorism can be legal under international law if , as in Afghanistan , it is initiated in self-defense and designed to deter future attacks . U.N. Charter , art . 51 -LSB- King , Matthew Scott , ` Legality of the United States War on Terror : is Article 51 a Legitimate Vehicle for the War in Afghanistan or Just a Blanket to Cover-up International War Crimes ' , ILSA Journal of International and Comparative Law 9 457 -LRB- 2002-2003 -RRB- , p. 458 	States are justified in waging war to respond to terrorist attacks when they do so in self-defense .
In 1998 , Dr , Andrew Wakefield started a big campaign against multiple vaccinations , when his research , published in The Lancet -LRB- a medical journal -RRB- a study on how MMR jabs increase the likelihood of children for autism . Because it was published in a well-known magazine it was considered a reliable source . Since then several studies -LRB- 31 according to the NHS -RRB- disproved the claims made by a study . Theyve proven there is no link between MMR vaccinations and autism . Further on the World Health Organisation explained in 2003 , that autism , especially in countries with high vaccination rates has not increased . The WHO states , that : Autistic spectrum disorder represents a continuum of cognitive and neurobehavioral disorders including autism . The prevalence of autism varies considerably with case ascertainment , ranging from 0.7 21.1 per 10 000 children , with autistic spectrum disorder estimated to be 1 6 per 1000 . Based on that evidence we see , that not more children became autistic because of the vaccination and that on scientific grounds there is no found linkage between autism and multiple vaccination . 	Multiple vaccines do not cause autism
Despite fears to the contrary , multiple vaccines cause no harm . Being given immunization in many cases means that people receive a weakened virus . Many believe that because of this they will have a weakened immune system and also suffer from long term body harm . The evidence suggests this is not the case , and that combined vaccinations cause no adverse harm in the vast majority of cases . A University of Louisiana study , in which more than 1,000 children underwent in-depth neuropsychological tests after receiving a series of vaccinations , found that there was no evidence of neurodevelopmental delays or deficits associated with on-time vaccination . Further , multiple vaccinations , which ensure not only that children get their vaccinations but that they do so as quickly as possible , are associated with improved performance compared with a control group that received the vaccinations individually and therefore more slowly . Therefore , not only are multiple vaccines harmless , they are a better choice for parents hoping to ensure their children are inoculated from certain diseases . This is nothing but scare-mongering by the press . No evidence exists that there is a link between MMR or any multiple vaccine and the development of autism . Pseudo-experts are exploiting the pain of families that have children which have this unfortunate disease . They should be ashamed of themselves . 	Multiple vaccines cause no harm
Multiple vaccines do the job of individual vaccines , but more efficiently and faster . Vaccines work because our body has a natural defense system called the immune system . The immune system recognizes foreign bodies such as viruses and bacteria and creates antibodies to destroy them . Once your immune system has had contact with a particular virus or bacteria it knows how to protect the body against it . Vaccines use the bodys ability to do this to help protect us against diseases that may otherwise be deadly . Vaccines contains part of the virus or disease and when injected stimulate the body to create antibodies to fight and neutralize the disease . Multiple vaccines specifically are more efficient in delivering such vaccines than separate , individual injections . Combined vaccines reduce the number of necessary injections by a third , meaning less pain and less possible side-effects . Combined vaccines also reduce the time that children are at risk from the diseases being vaccinated against , leading directly to fewer cases of such diseases in the population . The MMR combined vaccine , for example , which protects against measles , mumps and rubella , has led to an all-time low number of children catching these diseases since being introduced in the United Kingdom . Let us be absolutely clear . The alternative to multiple vaccinations are single vaccinations , which take time and expose risk . Undoubtedly childrens lives have been endangered or lost for a completely fictional harm . 	Multiple vaccines serve millions with improved immunity
All vaccinations are tested rigorously before they are approved for use . As vaccinations represent an important and potential harmful intrusion in an individuals body , it is very important that they are safe . This is especially clear when governments decide to make immunization obligatory ; they have to be sure they administer to their citizens safe vaccinations . Based on the increase in the number of compulsory vaccinations in different countries , many governments have also stocked up on the funding of vaccination controlling of offered immunization treatments . Such stockpiling would only occur if they were confident that the vaccines have passed through a rigorous testing process . Furthermore , even after being approved , organizations exist , like the United States Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System , as a center for tracking adverse events related to specific vaccines . If the events classified as serious are reported regularly for a specific vaccine , the vaccine can be subject to further study . 	All vaccinations are tested rigorously before they are approved , and tracked afterwards
Modern Georgia never really controlled S. Ossetia . South Ossetia declared independence from Georgia shortly after Georgia gained independence from the disintegrating USSR in 1991 . South Ossetia has maintained de facto independence ever since . Georgia , therefore , can not really claim to have had sustained , legitimate sovereign control over South Ossetia in modern times . Even the USSR recognised S. Ossetia as distinct from Georgia , with the Kremlin stating in 1920 that we consider that Ossetia should have the power it prefers . Georgian intrusion into affairs of Ossetia would be an unjustified intervention into foreign internal affairs . S. Ossetia was an autonomous region within the USSR . It was not considered part of the same region that is now Georgia , and thus during its years under the USSR , S. Ossetia built up a significant degree of autonomy and independence in its internal functioning . Therefore , Georgia 's only real claim to South Ossetia must extend back nearly a century , before the time of the Soviet Union . This significantly weakens Georgia 's claim over South Ossetia , but moreover Georgia 's historical claim on South Ossetia is quite weak even in isolation . This is because S. Ossetia has its own distinct language and history to that of Georgia . Ossetian or Ossetic is a member of the Northeastern Iranian branch of Indo-European languages . About 500,000 people speak Ossetian in Ossetia . That Ossetia has this distinct language is an important fact in favour of its status as a nation-state and in favor of its independence . Georgia , however , has been accused of committing genocide against the South Ossetians in 1920 , 1993 , and 2008 , with tens of thousands of S. Ossetians dying over the course of these conflicts . The Georgian government has also attempted to suppress S. Ossetian culture and identity , for example banning the use of the Ossetian language in official documents and abolishing S. Ossetian autonomy within Georgia . Georgian rule in S. Ossetia is therefore both ahistorical , due to S. Ossetia 's long and recognised history of independence and cultural and linguistic distinctness , and illegitimate , as the Georgian government has waged war upon the very lives and identity of the S. Ossetian people . BBC News . S Ossetia votes for independence . BBC News . 13 November 2006 . Bzarov , Ruslan . Independence of the Republic of South Ossetia a guarantee of safety and reliable future of the Ossetian people . Speech of Doctor of historical sciences , Professor Ruslan Bzarov at the VI congress of the Ossetian people . September 2007 . BBC News . S Ossetia votes for independence . BBC News . 13 November 2006 . Omniglot . Ossetian . Omniglot . Portyakova , Natalya and Sysoyev , Gennady . Measuring South Ossetia by Kosovo . Kommersant . 15 November 2006 . Makarkin , Alexei . How is South Ossetia different from Kosovo ? . RIA Novosti . 9 March 2006 . 	Georgian rule in South Ossetia is historically illegitimate and oppressive
The status quo in the region is one of militarized clashes and tensions . It is important to recognize that South Ossetia has been de facto independent for some time . If it does not achieve independence , the proposed alternative is that it re-integrate into Georgia . Yet , of South Ossetians have made it clear that they will not accept this . The only possible course of action , therefore , would be to force over 100,000 South Ossetians to live under the tyranny of the majority of the Georgian state . This would not only be a clear violation of self-determination and basic democratic principles , but it would also risk a protracted war or insurgency in S. Ossetia against any re-assertion of Georgian authority . S. Ossetia and Georgia have been battling each other for over a century . Georgia has been accused of ethnic cleansing there , and of launching a ` war of aggression ' which killed a large number of S. Ossetian civilians in 2008 . This war , as the culmination of Georgian aggression against S. Osstia , has made finally made any sort of reconciliation between the two impossible , and hardened S. Ossetian desires for independence . Keeping S. Ossetia within Georgia will simply prolong this ethic struggle , which has demonstrated itself to be irreconcilable in the foreseeable future . This conflict could easily draw in other powers -LRB- such as Russia -RRB- and cause a wider war once again . Granting S. Ossetian independence , therefore , would help avoid future conflicts and their awful humanitarian consequences . Walker , Shaun . South Ossetia : Russian , Georgian ... independent ? . Open Democracy . 15 November 2006 . 	South Ossetian independence will help prevent future conflict
The 1993 Vienna Declaration , which reaffirmed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Charter -LRB- and so sets the standard in current international law -RRB- , unequivocally gives all peoples the right to self-determination : `` All people have the right to self-determination . Owing to this right they freely establish their political status and freely provide their economic , social and cultural development ... World Conference on Human Rights considers refusal of the right to self-determination as a violation of human rights and emphasizes the necessity of effective realization of this right '' . By this measure , South Ossetia has the right to self-determination -LRB- by democratic processes -RRB- , and any suppression of that right should be seen as a human rights violation . In 2006 , South Ossetia held a referendum that found over 99 % of its population of over 100,000 desire independence from Georgia . 95 % of the population turned out to vote . The referendum was monitored by a team of 34 international observers . These facts are the core of the case for South Ossetian independence . It demonstrates that South Ossetians are entirely unified and enthusiastic in their desire for independence . The strength and unity of these calls for independence are almost unprecedented and can not be ignored by the international community . And , certainly , the percentage of a population that desires independence is of relevance to assessing the legitimacy of the call and a country 's right to self-determination . By this standard , South Ossetia 's right to self-determination is highly legitimate . United Nations World Conference on Human Rights . VIENNA DECLARATION AND PROGRAMME OF ACTION . United Nations . 14-25 June 1993 . BBC News . S Ossetia votes for independence . BBC News . 13 November 2006 . 	South Ossetia has a right to self-determination
Operation Cast Lead was justified as it was proportionate to Hamas ' rocket attacks against Israel . It should be remembered that 250,000 Israelis living in the southern part of the country had lived under years of terrorism before Operation Cast Lead was launched , often in bomb shelters , and the economy has suffered . The world 's media may only have paid attention when Israel responded to Hamas ' barrage , but this does not mean that Israel was not already under severe attack by this point . -LRB- 1 -RRB- Moreover , the Israeli strikes were rightly measured to disable Hamas rocket attacks . -LRB- 11 -RRB- Terror groups fire indiscriminately at innocent Israelis and then complain of excessive or disproportionate force when Israel fires back . But according to internationally accepted laws of war , Israel is permitted to respond with the force necessary to end the conflict . -LRB- 2 -RRB- Israel was legitimate in using full force to win its war on Hamas ; Israel was under no obligation to restrain itself in what is , on Hamas ' own terms , an existential war . Provoked by Hamas , Israel had every right to wage a disproportionate and overwhelming response . Hamas has repeatedly stated that its objective is to destroy Israel . Such an existential threat goes beyond simply Hamas ' rocket attacks , as it portends much more destructive attacks in the future . This justifies defensive attacks from Israel that go beyond responding merely to the Hamas rockets , and would even justify Israeli efforts to fully demobilize or destroy Hamas . -LRB- 12 -RRB- In spite of this , Israel was actually far more restrained and proportionate than it was obligated to be . Israeli precision strikes sought to minimize civilian deaths , as Benjamin Netanyahu argued : `` In launching precision strikes against Hamas rocket launchers , headquarters , weapons depots , smuggling tunnels and training camps , Israel is trying to minimize civilian casualties . '' -LRB- 13 -RRB- Unlike Hamas , Israeli strikes targeted military sites , not civilians . As Gary Grant argued : `` Even if you target your action at military sites , civilians are inevitably going to get killed ... these need to be contrasted with the actions of Hamas where every single rocket is designed to attack civilian populations , so every single act of Hamas in firing these rockets is clearly an illegal act without any legal justification . '' -LRB- 2 -RRB- Israel may have been justified in acting disproportionately , but instead chose to respond in a proportionate and limited manner which minimized civilian deaths in Gaza , and thus the Israeli military operations were certainly justified . 	The military operations were proportionate to the threat :
The military operations were a legitimate use of the Israeli states right to defend itself and its citizens : To quote then-President-elect Barack Obama - `` If somebody was sending rockets into my house where my two daughters sleep at night , I would do everything to stop that , and would expect Israel to do the same thing . '' -LRB- 1 -RRB- Prior to Israel 's 2008-2009 military operations , Hamas had consistently violated the terms of the ceasefire between Gaza and Israel . It launched a total 6,300 rockets during an agreed hiatus in the confrontation , killing 10 and wounding more than 780 . Hamas refused to extend the truce past 19 December 2008 and subsequently resumed attacks , firing nearly 300 more missiles , rockets and mortars . -LRB- 1 -RRB- Hamas was the first to actually escalate the conflict after the ceasefire expired , with a systematic increase in rocket attacks to a magnitude of hundreds of rockets fired daily in late December . -LRB- 2 -RRB- The 250,000 Israelis who lived in the southern part of the country were under constant threat , often in bomb shelters , and the economy suffered as a result . -LRB- 1 -RRB- Israel went to great lengths to avoid its military escalation . Just a few days before Israel 's military operations , outgoing Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert made an appeal on the Arab television station Al-Arabiya asking Gaza residents to stop the firing of rockets and mortar shells so that a military response could be avoided . -LRB- 3 -RRB- This appeal was apparently ignored by Hamas and the other militant groups in Gaza , and so Israel proceeded to respond militarily to remove the capacity of Gaza to launch rocket and mortar attacks Israel was left with no other way to ensure that the inhabitants of the countrys southern regions would not have to live in fear of rocket fire . Gaza was also a test case , intended to prove that Israel remained a legitimate and authoritative actor in the region . Much more was at stake than merely the military outcome of Israel 's operation . The issue , rather , was Israel 's ability to restore its deterrence power and uphold the principle that its citizens can not be targeted with impunity . -LRB- 4 -RRB- Israel 's military operations were a good tool to fulfill this need for self-defense and did so effectively . The Israeli strikes hit their targets precisely enough to do significant damage to Hamas forces , both to its leadership and to the tunnels from Gaza to Egypt that Hamas uses to smuggle in weapons and build its growing army . -LRB- 1 -RRB- Doing this damage was necessary as Israel could never be safe with a strong terrorist regime in control of Gaza . As David Harris , Executive Director for the American Jewish Committee , argued : `` Israel could not tolerate a terrorist regime on its border that was launching repeated rocket and mortar attacks against Israeli towns and villages . '' -LRB- 5 -RRB- Therefore there can be no debate that Israel had the right to defend itself as well as the right to determine how best to do so . While it is easy for countries and foreigners to state their opinions about Israel 's security interests and how its actions may or may not fulfill them , Israel 's right to make that judgment itself must be respected . Therefore Israel 's military operations against Gaza were justified as legitimate self defense against Hamas and militant aggression which was putting the lives of Israeli citizens in jeopardy . 	The military operations were legitimate as Israeli self-defense :
As Michael Oren and Yossi Klein Haleviargue explain , the Israeli public will not make territorial concessions on the West Bank or the Golan Heights if Gaza is allowed to become a neighboring terrorist state that can launch attacks with impunity . Israel had already had a bad enough experience letting that happen with Hezbollah in Southern Lebanon . -LRB- 1 -RRB- Without the assurance that they will be allowed to protect their homes and families following withdrawal , Israelis will rightly perceive a two-state solution as an existential threat . They will continue to share the left-wing vision of coexistence with a peaceful Palestinian neighbor in theory , but in reality will heed the right 's warnings of Jewish powerlessness . -LRB- 4 -RRB- Meanwhile , the stronger Hamas becomes , the more resistance moderate Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas will face to making any concessions to Israel . -LRB- 1 -RRB- Therefore damaging Hamas , via Operation Cast Lead , actually aided the peace process in the long run , and was necessary in order to make an eventual two-state peace solution possible . The Israeli attacks may also eventually help force Hamas to accept a more durable ceasefire . Unlike the botched invasion of Lebanon in 2006 , when Israel set itself the unattainable goal of eliminating the military capability of Hezbollah , during Operation Cast Lead it was made clear that the objective was not to wipe out Hamas , but instead to force the radical group to accept a durable cease-fire on Israel 's terms . -LRB- 8 -RRB- This was necessary as prior to Operation Cast Lead Hamas showed no interest in peace , opting instead to pursue its political objectives through the use of terrorism . When Hamas came to power in Gaza in January 2006 , it failed to control the rocket fire from the variety of miltary brigades , including its own al-Qassam brigade , into Israel and failed to establish internal stability . The widespread violence between Fatah and Hamas , which ended in June 2007 , when Hamas took control of Gaza and ousted leaders of President Mahmoud Abbas 's Fatah movement , made Israel more wary of the security threat an unstable Gaza could pose . -LRB- 9 -RRB- In Israel 's view , Hamas ' behavior and its reliance on terror tactics will never change if it thinks it can attack with impunity , and so the Israeli military operations were necessary and justified in the name of restoring Israel 's deterrent and weakening Hamas , both of which make long term peace more likely . 	The military operations were necessary for long term peace :
There is no need for any prefixed or specified Europeans anymore . Given that the continent of Europe is merging into one single identity , there is no need to have more than one working EU language in operation ; this could create divisions and even tensions within the overall identity of European . The Euro coins are no longer specific to each nation , goods are bought and sold between EU nations without restrictions . The seams between the European nations are fast disappearing as they merge ever closer together . Therefore , one singe language for managing all the EU Member States communal affairs makes perfect sense . 	There already exists a pan-European identity across all EU Member States , and a single working language would help to strengthen that identity .
It is very expensive to employ translators and interpreters , and to publish all documents in French as well as English . Ireland Business News reported that the EUs translation -LRB- excluding interpreting -RRB- costs were 800 million Euros in 2006 . This money is better spent on the EUs actual practices . 	Working through many languages in the European Union costs money that could be spent on EUs projects rather than unnecessary conversation .
If the EU uses the global language of English as its working language , other governments , parliaments and Unions will be able to understand its activities and methods of operation . 27 % of the worlds population speak English . In the EU Member States alone , there are 61 , 850,000 native English speakers and 168,000,000 non - native speakers of English . It is a medium that could reach so many people and through which the EU can influence other governments to take similar positive action . So many of the worlds large problems stem from a lack of communication . War is often the result of two sides being unable to communicate and mediate , and so violence is resorted to . It is often described as the only language the enemy understands because of a failure to work out differences in a non-violent way . When fighting breaks out , it brings with it all manner of other issues such as famine and trauma . English is a global language and the EU should use this to its advantage . The EU brings democracy and should serve as a great example thereof for the rest of the world . Populations of all other countries need to be able to understand the EUs activity and the way to operate a democracy as demonstrated by the EU , and the way to achieve this is for the EU to use the global language of English so as to render transparent the running of a democracy , so that it can spread . If the EU can communicate its good ideas successfully , it can influence other organisations , providing them with the antidotes to their own problems . 	The EU ought to make English its working language in order to be a more transparent democracy for the rest of the world .
It is highly demanding to request all MEPs to be multilingual and translation and interpreting time takes time out of the meetings when vital issues could and should be discussed and addressed and in which problems should be solved . They have been elected on the strength of their political abilities , not their language skills . If we require all MEPs to be multilingual , we are actually excluding many politicians who could be very skilled , but dont speak enough languages for the EU . 	The status quo is impractical , because we expect MEPs to be multilingual in order to be effective .
The EU use technical jargon for which there is often not a direct translation . Therefore , it makes more sense to only have one name for each concept , by which that concept shall be known , in order to economize effort and to not waste time creating translations for EU-specific jargon . It is not chauvinistic , or even a matter of preference , to use English as a working language over other languages ; it just so happens to be a language that is understood throughout the EU Member States . It is better and more effective to spend the time addressing the issues rather than deciding by which names to call these entities that give rise to issues within the EU . 	One working language understood by all Member States is a more practical way of communicating often untranslatable yet vital EU-specific vocabulary .
Multilingualism could lead to several breakdowns in communication , which only give rise to further problems . This is especially likely between French and English where there are many false friends . For example actuellement in French translates into English as currently , not actually . Using only one working language will eradicate confusion and reduce the number of errors . This is especially important in the realm of international politics , where small errors can breed long-term consequences . 	It is more practical to work through one language that all Member States understand in order to ensure the effectiveness of communication .
By making publicly funded academic work freely available to society , the state throws open the door to far more long term progress and invention that has been so long shut by the jealous hoarding of information and research . The arenas of science , literature , critical theory , and all other fields of academic pursuit , benefit most from a proliferation of voices and opinions , this is why the peer review system exists . This is much as how crowdsourcing and openness helps with software development , there are more eyeballs to spot mistakes , as a result research , particularly of large data capture projects is increasingly being crowdsourced itself . By expanding the range of people able to utilize the information produced , more new and interesting things can be developed from it . The state funds important work , work that might never be able to attract private investment but is still important to the public interest . But this funding must then be available so that it may be best used in that public interest . And oftentimes it is only after an unprofitable , academic pursuit is explored with state support that someone else finds a profitable new use for it . That new endeavour can only be realised if academic work is made available to the public . In 2011 universities in the United States earned $ 1.8 billion in royalties from research . Rather than simply being allowed to profit on their own , the inventions and developments of state-funded academic work should be made freely available to the public . Dunning , A. , -LRB- 29 July 2011 -RRB- Is crowdsourcing dumbing down research ? Guardian Professional . Blumenstyk , G. -LRB- 2012 -RRB- Universities Report $ 1.8 Billion in Earnings on Inventions in 2011 . The Chronicle . 	The opening up of information to the public encourages further research and development
Everyone benefits from the public spreading of knowledge and information . Universities are central loci of the pursuit of knowledge and exploration of science , technology , history , the arts , and all many and varied forms of intellectual enquiry . When the state opts to fund research and development in the university setting , it becomes a part-owner of the ideas and creation that springs forth from that funding , just as it belongs to the researchers who directly produce it . State funding is given to universities not simply to further the bounds of human discovery for its own sake , but so that those boundaries can be pushed for the benefit of the citizens of the polity . This is because the state is fundamentally a servant of the people , using the peoples money to further the societys aims , such as better health and a more productive workforce . Ultimately the purpose of the state in all its functions is to provide safety and services so that people can all avail of what they consider to be the good life . In order to serve this obligation to the people , the state ensures that the research it funds is publicly available . By conditioning all of its research funding to universities on their agreeing to make all of their work publicly available the state can effectively serve the people and guarantee that the citizenry gets the full benefit of their money spent on those researches . This obligation of states has been echoed in new laws passed in Australia , Canada , and other countries that now seek to expand public access to state funded research , particularly academic research produced in universities and other dedicated research organizations . The ultimate purpose of the state is to serve the public interest , and it is remiss in that duty when it fails to have the products of its monetary investments serve benefit the public . Universities are the great repositories and breeding grounds of knowledge , and the state must ensure that that knowledge , when it is produced because of the states largesse , is available for all to enjoy and benefit from . 	Academic work produced by means of public funds belongs to the public
The creators and producers of novel work , literary , scientific , other research , etc . enjoy large and sweeping protections due to the intellectual property rights enshrined in law in all developed countries . These laws restrict public use of these researches , which can only occur with the express permission of the owners of these works . But the research that is deemed worthy of state funding must pass a test of importance , and must be of enough social significance to make it worth doling out limited research and development money . Universities , as the important and vibrant centres of learning and research in the world , are a critical part of states efforts to remain relevant and competitive in a world of rapid technological change . States fund many universities , in much of Europe accounting for the vast majority of university funding as a whole , across the EU almost 85 % of funding is from public sources , and they currently do not get their moneys worth . Even when states gain partial ownership of the products of research and the patents that arise from state funding to university scientists and researchers they do not serve their full duty to the people they represent . Rather , the state should be ensuring that the information produced is made fully available to the people for their use and for the real benefit of all , not just the profit of a few institutions . Universities are as aggressively protective of their patents and discoveries as much as any profit-seeking private firm , but the state should instead seek to minimize these urges by altering the sorts of arrangements it makes with universities . Research into new theories , medicines , technologies , etc . are all important to society and should be fostered with public funding where necessary . The state best ensures the benefit of society by making sure that when it agrees to fund a research program it guarantees that the information produced will be fully available to all citizens to enjoy and benefit from . More than just attaining a result , the state needs to give its funding maximum exposure so it can be maximally utilized . Vught , F. , et al . -LRB- 2010 -RRB- Funding Higher Education : A View Across Europe , Ben Jongbloed Center for Higher Education Policy Studies University of Twente . 	Research produced with public funding is too important to be left in the hands of universities alone
Private accounts would provide retirees with a higher rate of return on investments . Privatization would give investment decisions to account holders . This does not mean that Social Security money for the under 55s would go to Wall Street . . This could be left to the individual 's discretion . Potentially this could include government funds . But with governments record of mismanagement , and a $ 14 trillion deficit , it seems unlikely that many people would join that choice . As Andrew Roth argues , `` Democrats will say supporters of personal accounts will allow people 's fragile retirement plans to be subjected to the whims of the stock market , but that 's just more demagoguery . First , personal accounts would be voluntary . If you like the current system -LRB- the one that -LSB- can be raided by -RSB- politicians -RRB- , you can stay put and be subjected to decreasingly low returns as Social Security goes bankrupt . But if you want your money protected from politicians and have the opportunity to invest in the same financial assets that politicians invest in their own retirement plans -LRB- most are well-diversified long term funds -RRB- , then you should have that option . '' Social Security privatization would actually help the economically marginalised in two ways . Firstly , by ending the harm social security currently does ; Those at the poverty level need every cent just to survive . Even those in the lower-middle class dont money to put into a wealth-generating retirement account . They have to rely on social security income to pay the bills when they reach retirement . Unfortunately , current social security pay-outs are at or below the poverty level . The money earned in benefits based on a retirees contributions during their working life is less than the return on a passbook savings account . Secondly , these same groups would be amongst the biggest ` winners ' from privatization . By providing a much higher rate of return , privatization would raise the incomes of those elderly retirees who are most in need . The current system contains many inequities that leave the poor at a disadvantage . For instance , the low-income elderly are most likely to be dependent on Social Security benefits for most or all of their retirement income . But despite a progressive benefit structure , Social Security benefits are inadequate for the elderly poor 's retirement needs . Privatizing Social Security would improve individual liberty . Privatization would give all Americans the opportunity to participate in the economy through investments . Everyone would become capitalists and stock owners reducing the division of labour and capital and restoring the ownership that was the initial foundation of the American dream . Moreover , privatized accounts would be transferable within families , which current Social Security accounts are not . These privatized accounts would be personal assets , much like a house or a 401k account . On death , privatised social security accounts could pass to an individuals heirs . With the current system , this can not be done . Workers who have spent their lives paying withholding taxes are , in effect , denied a proprietary claim over money that , by rights , belongs to them . This would make privatization a progressive move . Because the wealthy generally live longer than the poor , they receive a higher total of Social Security payments over the course of their lifetimes . This would be evened out if remaining benefits could be passed on . Privatizing Social Security increases personal choice and gives people control over what they paid and thus are entitled to . Overall , therefore , privatizing Social Security would increase the amount of money that marginalised retirees receive and would give all retirees more freedom to invest and distribute social security payments . 	Privatising social security will increase the amount of money that reitrees can draw on
Privatizing social security would enable investment of savings . Commentator Alex Schibuola argues that : `` If Social Security were privatized , people would deposit their income with a bank . People actually save resources that businesses can invest . We , as true savers , get more resources in the future . '' As a result private accounts would also increase investments , jobs and wages . Michael Tanner of the think tank the Cato Institute argues : `` Social Security drains capital from the poorest areas of the country , leaving less money available for new investment and job creation . Privatization would increase national savings and provide a new pool of capital for investment that would be particularly beneficial to the poor . '' Currently Social Security represents a net loss for taxpayers and beneficiaries . Social Security , although key to the restructuring the of USAs social contract following the great depression , represents a bad deal for the post-war American economy . Moreover , this deal has gotten worse over time . ` Baby boomers ' are projected to lose roughly 5 cents of every dollar they earn to the OASI program in taxes net of benefits . Young adults who came of age in the early 1990s and today 's children are on course to lose over 7 cents of every dollar they earn in net taxes . If OASI taxes were to be raised immediately by the amount needed to pay for OASI benefits on an on-going basis , baby boomers would forfeit 6 cents of every dollar they earn in net OASI taxes . For those born later it would be 10 cents . Change could be implemented gradually . Andrew Roth argues : While Americans in retirement or approaching retirement would probably stay in the current system -LSB- if Social Security were to be privatized -RSB- , younger workers should have the option to invest a portion of their money in financial assets other than U.S. Treasuries . These accounts would be the ultimate `` lock box '' - they would prevent politicians in Washington from raiding the Trust Fund . The truth is that taxpayers bail out politicians every year thanks to Social Security . Congress and the White House spend more money than they have , so they steal money from Social Security to help pay for it . That needs to stop and there is no responsible way of doing that except with personal accounts . This would make social security much more sustainable as there would no longer be the risk of the money being spent elsewhere . Put simply , privatizing Social Security would actually boost economic growth and lead to better-protected investments by beneficiaries , benefiting not only themselves but the nation at large . Thus Social Security should be privatized . 	Privatising social security would improve economic growth
Social Security is in Crisis . Social Security in the United States , as in most western liberal democracies , is a pay-as-you-go system and has always been so . As such , it is an intergenerational wealth transfer . The solvency of the system therefore relies on favourable demographics ; particularly birth rate and longevity . In the United States the birth rate when Social Security was created was 2.3 children per woman but had risen to 3.0 by 1950 . Today it is 2.06 . The average life expectancy in 1935 was 63 and today it is 75 . While this may be representative of an improvement in quality-of-life for many Americans , these demographic changes also indicate the increasing burden that social security systems are being put under . As a result of changing demographic factors , the number of workers paying Social Security payroll taxes has gone from 16 for every retiree in 1950 to just 3.3 in 1997 . This ration will continue to decline to just 2 to 1 by 2025 . This has meant the tax has been increased thirty times in sixty-two years to compensate . Originally it was just 2 percent on a maximum taxable income of $ 300 , now it is 12.4 percent of a maximum income of $ 65,400 . This will have to be raised to 18 percent to pay for all promised current benefits , and if Medicare is included the tax will have to go to nearly 28 percent . Social Security is an unsuitable approach to protecting the welfare of a retiring workforce . The social security system as it stands is unsustainable , and will place an excessive tax burden on the current working population of the USA , who will be expected to pay for the impending retirement of almost 70 million members of the baby boomer generation . This crisis is likely to begin in 2016 when - according to experts - more money will be paid out by the federal government in social security benefits than it will receive in payroll taxes . In many ways Social Security has now just become a giant ponzi scheme . As the Cato Institute has argued : Just like Ponzi 's plan , Social Security does not make any real investments -- it just takes money from later ` investors ' or taxpayers , to pay benefits to the schemes earlier , now retired , entrants . Like Ponzi , Social Security will not be able to recruit new `` investors '' fast enough to continue paying promised benefits to previous investors . Because each year there are fewer young workers relative to the number of retirees , Social Security will eventually collapse , just like Ponzi 's scheme . Faced with this impending crisis , privatizing is at worst the best of the ` bad ' options . It provides an opportunity to make the system sustainable and to make it fair to all generations by having everyone pay for their own retirement rather than someone elses . 	The social security system is unsustainable in the status quo
Currently , global oil supply is dominated by the OPEC-cartel , consisting of countries like Venezuela and Saudi Arabia . In 2010 , OPEC-countries held about 80 % of the worlds global proven conventional oil reserves , with the bulk of this in the Middle East . This creates a dangerous dependency for all oil-importing countries . Suppose the United States or the European Union would face a serious deterioration in diplomatic relations with the Middle East , after which OPEC would decide to cut oil supplies the consequences would be dire , as the 1973 oil crisis showed . Since unconventional oil is found in many places around the world , it offers oil importing countries the possibility to diversify their energy import portfolio , thus lessening the risk of being cut off for political reasons -LRB- , 2011 -RRB- . Problems affecting the flow of oil from the Middle East are unlikely to affect the flow of unconventional oil from Canada at the same time . A lot of the worlds unconventional oil is outside of OPEC . For example , the second largest world oil reserve lies at the Athabasca oil sands deposit in Canada , which is not a member of OPEC -LRB- wikipedia , . The United States and other oil importing countries could lessen dependence and thereby stop financing corrupt Middle Eastern regimes via oil imports -LRB- 2010 -RRB- . 	Unconventional oil can contribute to energy security
According to Shell geoscientist Marion King Hubbert , the production rate of a limited resource will follow a roughly symmetrical logistic distribution curve -LRB- similar in shape to the bell-curve -RRB- based on the limits of exploitability and market pressures . The peak of world oilfield discoveries occurred in 1965 but global energy demands are still rising -LRB- wikipedia , This means well likely hit peak oil in the coming decades , after which global oil production will decline rapidly . The effects of this will be devastating : oil prices will rise , global transport chains will fall silent and the use of many other oil-related products , like plastics , in our everyday life will be near impossible . The reserves of unconventional oil , however , are so massive that they dwarf the current reserves of conventional oil , the tar sands in Canada alone have estimated reserves of 1.7 trillion and possibly as much as 2.5 trillion barrels of oil equivalent , so that we can effectively postpone peak oil for decades , if not centuries -LRB- 2011 and 2011 -RRB- . This would provide more than enough time to be changing to using other technologies and away from dependence on oil towards more renewable energies . 	Unconventional oil can mitigate peak oil
The production costs per barrel of oil from oil sands is somewhere between $ 40 to $ 80 per barrel , and from oil shales somewhere between $ 50 to over $ 100 per barrel -LRB- 2008 -RRB- . The International Energy Agency expects oil prices to be around or over $ 100 per barrel in the coming decade -LRB- 2011 -RRB- , rising to $ 120 per barrel in 2035 -LRB- 2011 -RRB- , this is exactly what should be expected with surging demand for oil while supply does not keep up . Moreover , with technology advancing , the production cost per barrel for unconventional oil is likely to decline even further as fields are developed -LRB- 2009 -RRB- . That means this is a sound investment decision . 	Unconventional oil is economically viable
There are two issues keeping Russia cautious of NATO as a military alliance . The first is a proposal by the U.S. to put up a missile defence system in Poland , the Czech Republic and on warships in the Black Sea under the flag of NATO to protect against missiles from Iran or North Korea , which , according to Russia , would never fly over these countries in any attack . Russia concludes that the missile defence system therefore must be directed at them . The second issue is NATOs plans to expand with Ukraine and Georgia , which Russia has traditionally regarded as part of their sphere of influence . As Russian president Medvedev stated in 2008 : No state can be pleased about having representatives of a military bloc to which it does not belong coming close to its borders . 	NATO destabilizes peaceful relations with Russia
Originally , NATO had a clearly defined purpose and a common enemy : the Soviet bloc . With the demise of that shared enemy , NATOs original purpose has disappeared but its well-functioning military structure remained , leaving it open to be seized by opportunistic politicians in a classic case of scope creep . This has happened with U.S. President George Bush jr. s push to let Ukraine and Georgia in as new members in his global campaign to spread democracy . This has only served to increase tensions with Russia -LRB- see next argument -RRB- . Who is to say that something similar isnt going to happen vis -- vis China ? 	Continued existence of NATO makes the world less safe
The clause that an attack against one means an attack against all -LRB- Article V -RRB- runs the risk of entangling the entire alliance in an unwanted conflict . This has happened before : World War I started out as a local conflict between the Austro-Hungarian empire and Serbia , but through their security alliances inadvertently drew in all the major powers of the world . Given that many members of NATO have unstable countries near their borders -LRB- i.e . Turkey bordering Iraq -RRB- there is a risk they could become involved in a small regional war , which then inadvertently draws in the entire world . 	NATO runs the unacceptable risk of accidental escalation
With universal health care , people are able to seek preventive treatment . This means having tests and check-ups before they feel ill , so that conditions can be picked up in their early stages when they are easy to treat . For example in a recent study 70 % of women with health insurance knew their cholesterol level , while only 50 % of uninsured women did . In the end , people who do not get preventive health care will get treatment only when their disease is more advanced . As a result their care will cost more and the outcomes are likely to be much worse . Preventative care , made more accessible , can function the same way , reducing the costs further . In addition , a single-payer system reduces the administrative costs . A different way of charging for the care , not by individual services but by outcomes , as proposed by Obamas bill , also changes incentives from as many tests and procedures as possible to as many patients treated and healed as possible . We thus see that not only does universal health coverage inherently decrease costs because of preventative care , much of the cost can be avoided if implemented wisely and incentivized properly . 	Health care would substantially reduce overall costs
The two crucial dimensions of the topic of introducing universal health care are morality and the affordability . Paragraph 1 of Article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states the following : Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and of his family , including food , clothing , housing and medical care and necessary social services , and the right to security in the event of unemployment , sickness , disability , widowhood , old age or other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control . Analyzing the text , we see that medical care , in so far , as it provides adequate health and well-being is considered a human right by the international community . In addition , it also states , that this right extends also to periods of unemployment , sickness , disability , and so forth . Despite this , why should we consider health care a human right ? Because health is an essential prerequisite for a functional individual one that is capable of free expression for instance and a functional society one capable of holding elections , not hampered by communicable diseases , to point to just one example . Universal health care provided by the state to all its citizens is the only form of health care that can provide what is outlined in the Declaration . In the US the only conditions truly universally covered are medical emergencies . But life without the immediate danger of death hardly constitutes an adequate standard of health and well-being . Additionally , programs such as Medicaid and Medicare do the same , yet again , only for certain parts of the population , not really providing the necessary care for the entire society . Further , the current system of health care actively removes health insurance from the unemployed , since most -LRB- 61 % -RRB- of Americans are insured through their employers thus not respecting the provision that demands care also in the case of unemployment . But does insurance equal health care ? In a word : yes . Given the incredible cost of modern and sophisticated medical care a colonoscopy can cost more than 3000 dollars in practice , those who are not insured are also not treated . 	Healthcare has been recognised as a right
American health insurance payments are very high and rising rapidly . Even employer-subsidised programs are very expensive for many Americans , because they often require co-payments or high deductibles -LRB- payment for the first part of any treatment -RRB- . In any case employee health benefits are being withdrawn by many companies as a way of cutting costs . For those without insurance , a relatively minor illness or injury can be a financial disaster . It is unfair that many ordinary hard-working Americans can no longer afford decent medical treatment . Moving to a system of universal health care would reduce the burden on human resources personnel in companies . At present they must make sure the company is obeying the very many federal laws about the provision of health insurance . With a universal system where the government was the single-payer , these regulations would not apply and the costs of American businesses would be much reduced . 	Current health care systems are not sustainable
Four out of every five children will be born to families whose members survive on less than $ 10 a day . Around one third of children in developing countries is estimated to be underweight or stunted . * Research suggests that even in the USA , 20 % of children live in poverty . And such an extreme plight of the child is only the beginning . Even if a child is born into a relatively well-off family , there are endless devastating situations he has to face during his life : war , death of family members , chronic illness , divorce , crime , and social exclusion . The list can go on and on forever . Having children is the equivalent of forcing innocent people , against their will , to experience the misery of life . Thus , it is inhumane . * Shah 2010 , 	It is morally wrong to bring children to this cruel and miserable world .
Social and economic inequalities between men and women stem primarily from the fact that women are the child bearers , and mothers overwhelmingly spend more time on childrearing tasks than do their male spouses . Not surprisingly then , many employers still discriminate against women when recruiting to work . They view females as those responsible for parenting and thus not reliable , devoted or loyal as employees . Even when there is little or no discrimination in recruitment women often hit a glass ceiling due to breaking their careers in order to have children , in the UK a recent report by the Chartered Management Institute found it would take until 2109 to close the pay gap . * On a social level , not having children will mean more gender equality as there will be no ground for justifying an unequal labour division . * Goodley , 2011 , 	Not having children promotes gender equality
For majority of people children are the biggest expenditure they ever undertake . The United States Department of Agriculture reported in 2008 that the average annual expenses associated with raising a child can be as high as $ 22,960 . * If we assume that a child will live with their parents until the age of 18 and add average cost of sending a child for 4 years to college , we arrive at the conclusion that bringing up a child in a developed country costs around $ 500,000 . This money can be far better spent , for instance , on enhancing the standard of education or health care , subsidising economic initiative in developing countries , investing in green technologies , etc . * Boy Scouts of America , 2011 , 	Having children is extraordinarily expensive
The level of emotional involvement in bringing the child up is immense . Parents pour all their souls into children , who , in turn , often leave them disenchanted and exhausted . Parents also have to share their childs problems , fears and traumas , so that the amount of grief that parents take on themselves doubles -LRB- or even triples , depending on how troublesome the child is -RRB- . Not only that , but those who have offspring also become more vulnerable . They worry about their kids from the moment they are born until the day they themselves die . Parents to-worry-about list is endless : from childs nutrition to summer camps , from accidents to social acceptance , from choosing a school to moving out . Having raised children , parents become emotional wrecks . All parents agree that it is emotionally draining and stressful , in 1975 , advice columnist Ann Landers asked her readers , If you had it to do over again , would you have children ? seventy percent of respondents said no . * * Goldberg , 2003 , 	Having children is emotionally draining for parents
Parenting effectively prevents people from pursuing their own interests and fulfilling their own goals . The child becomes the center and the only valid part of parents lives . By having kids , people turn from free individuals into servants . They often have to abandon their careers in order to take care of the offspring . Womens careers are most heavily affected , as women usually end up being the major childcare provider . Furthermore , people with children have much less time for socializing resulting in losing friends . Couples relationships are also bound to deteriorate as mother and father become more interested in a baby than in themselves . It has also been proven that couples with kids engage in sexual activities far less often than those who are childless . All of these reasons contribute to general dissatisfaction of parents who feel they have lost their own lives . As the evidence for that we can quote Daniel Gilbert , who holds a chair in psychology at Harvard . Based on his research findings , he reports that childless marriages are far happier . * Such a view is supported also by Madelyn Cain , a teacher at the University of Southern California , who says `` Statistics show childless couples are happier . Their lives are self-directed , they have a better chance of intimacy , and they do not have the stresses , financial and emotional , of parenthood . '' ** * Kingston , 2009 , ** Goldberg , 2003 , 	Having children has a devastating effect on lives of parents
The more people consume in the world , the greater the environmental damage . An average American produces 52 tons of garbage by the age of 75 . * However , producing extra litter and pollution is not the only hazard that every child poses to the planet . Increasing worlds population also places incredible stress on Earths resources . It is estimated , for instance , that by 2025 three billion people will live in water-scarce countries . By reducing the number of human beings we will manage to avoid numerous overpopulation crises and reverse the damage done to the environment . * Tufts Climate Initiative . , 2006 , 	Not having children is environmentally friendly
Federal states allow local decision making to suit local needs due to their tiered decision making structures . This ensures that citizens are able to determine how they should live their lives without infringing upon the rights of citizens in other federal units who may have different opinions . However on security matters which affect the entire federal state , citizens are better protected because the federal units are stronger together than apart . A federal state also creates a common sense of purpose than can dissuade conflict between the federal units . A good historical example of this behaviour was the agreement of the Swiss Cantons to come together to collectively protect and enrich themselves from outside threats in 1848 . 	Federal states are better able to protect their citizens .
Federal states tend to be larger and have different economic cycles . This allows the overall state to cope with different economic cycles by using fiscal transfers -LRB- tax -RRB- between wealthier states and poorer states to fund government programmes . So for example if Mississippi and New Mexico were paying for all their services themselves from their own taxes they would have debts of over 500 % of GDP , however at the beginning of the Republic it was the Southern States who were the richest due to their cotton wealth . 	Being a federal state helps large states deal with divergent economic performance
Federal states are able to remove trade barriers between members which would otherwise exist if there were independent states -LRB- such as difficulties in moving goods due to borders -RRB- . This increases internal trade and economic growth and encourages investors . Federal units are able to share resources and concentrate on producing what they are best at -LRB- called comparative advantage -RRB- at a better economy of scale . Even in cases of agreed free trade areas between states , there is no overarching authority to ensure timely compliance to agreements . Finally , larger economic units are more able to influence international trade regimes . 	Federal states are economically stronger
It is not clear what the logical end point for splitting countries over political differences would be . Since each individual has a unique set of preferences , or at least there are large numbers of groups of people with different preferences , the state must aggregate preferences at some point . It makes more sense for the state to aggregate preferences in such a way that creates effective states that can meet their -LRB- aggregate -RRB- goals rather than attempting to find `` pure '' nation states . Furthermore , nations are often scattered in areas which do not provide a clear location for a state . An example of this is Eastern Europe or Africa where ethnic groups and tribes regularly cross state boundaries and exist as unconnected pockets . It would be impossible to create states to cater to these groups . 	Nationally homogenous states are rare and most states have local differences
In mainstream schools which track students by ability , as many as 1/3 of black male students are incorrectly placed in slower classes . These lower-end classes are often assigned the worst teachers , reserving the better teachers for a school 's honor classes . Consequently , black males are often prevented from receiving an equal education in integrated schools . Allowing black males to be educated in an environment isolated from racial tensions and inequalities eliminates the psychological impact of `` tracking '' in integrated public schools . Narine , 25 . Ibid , 24 . 	Single race schools would prevent black students from being assigned to lower classes .
Even though the state requires mandatory education , the Constitution respects the right of free choice and free association : Catholics , for example , are free to attend schools with all-Catholic populations , and girls can go to schools that serve only girls . The result is that students are allowed to attend the schools that serve them best . But this should not be a privilege given only to those who can afford private schooling . Public school students , too , deserve options that serve them - and those options should include single-sex , single-race schools . Equality under the law does not mean sameness . 	Black students should have the choice to attend these schools if they wish .
Schools in the US focus primarily on European history and a version of American history that does not adequately cover African-American history . A few experimental schools with all black students have incorporated an `` Afrocentric '' curriculum , which focuses more on African history than European history and places a greater emphasis on the role of African-Americans in United States history . When students learn history as something that includes them , rather than the story of some other people , they are more likely to be engaged in the subject matter as they have a personal connection to the history , they will be learning their own history not someone else 's . Ibid , 37 . 	Students are more engaged in material to which they feel a connection .
In the US , black males are at a higher risk for murder , drug use , and imprisonment than any other group - they are 6.5 times more likely to be imprisoned than white males . They are disproportionately affected by drug use , violence , single parenting , poverty , racial profiling , and other factors that alienate them from society . Education specialists argue that because black males currently perform worse than any other group in school , teachers assume their black male students will be low performers and treat them differently . This treatment causes these students to accept defeat before they have been given a chance to show their potential . An educational environment that is specially designed to push black male students to succeed and take pride in their identity would eliminate the feeling of inferiority which integrated schools often impose . This means that all-black , all-male schools which are publicly funded are needed in order to directly address the needs of African-American male students in modern society . This does not mean that black males should be compelled to attend these schools , and , while this argument focuses on black males , the proposition is amenable to schools which address the needs of other minorities and minority females . Ibid , 7 . Ibid , 3 . Marcia L. Narine , `` Single-sex , Single-Race Public Schools : A solution to the Problems Plaguing the Black Community ? , '' DRS , 1992 , 25 . 	The proposition suggests the option of all-black , all-male schools which are publicly funded in order to directly address the needs of African-American male students in modern society .
Despite almost sixty years of integration , black students lag behind whites , and the difference is even greater for males . Only 12 percent of black fourth-grade boys are proficient in reading , compared with 38 percent of white boys , and only 12 percent of black eighth-grade boys are proficient in math , compared with 44 percent of white boys . Figures that are not explained just by poverty . The idyllic image of integrated schools does not line up to reality ; black males are still at great risk for dropping out of school , being imprisoned and murdered at rates several times higher than young white men . There is evidence to show that this alternative school system may benefit its students ; educators should not reject the opportunity without giving it a fair chance . Lewis , 3 . Gabriel , 2011 	Other efforts have not proven sufficiently effective , < sup > 1 < /sup > and so even sceptics should give single-race , single-sex schools a chance. < sup > 1 < /sup > Lewis , 3 .
It is common for Western democracies to make sweeping statements about the universality of certain rights , and that their system of government is the one that should be most sought after in the world , that democracy is the only legitimate form of government . As when Obama in Cairo proclaimed These are not just American ideas ; they are human rights . And that is why we will support them everywhere . They claim to work in the United Nations and other organizations toward the improvement of rights in other countries and clamour about the need for building governments accountability around the world , using their liberal-democratic paradigm as the model . Yet at the same time democratic governments and companies sell technologies to non-democratic allies that are used to systematically abuse the rights of citizens and to entrench the power of those avowedly illegitimate regimes . These hypocrisies read as a litany of shame . A telling example is the Blair government in the United Kingdom selling weapons to an oppressive regime in Indonesia for the sake of political expediency even after proclaiming an ethical foreign policy . Even if democracies do not feel it is a defensible position to actively seek to subvert all non-democratic states , and that non-democracies should be considered semi-legitimate on the basis of nations right to self-determination , they should still feel morally obliged not to abet those regimes by providing the very tools of oppression on which they rely . To continue dealing in these technologies serves only to make democratic countries statements hollow , and the rights they claim to uphold seem less absolute , a risk in itself to freedoms within democracies . Respect for rights begins at home , and actively eroding them elsewhere reduces respect for them by home governments . Obama , Barack , Remarks by the President on a new beginning , Office of the Press Secretary , 4 June 2009 , Burrows , G. No-Nonsense Guide to the Arms Trade . New Internationalist . 2002 , Elgin , B . House Bill May Ban US Surveillance Gear Sales . Bloomberg . 9 December 2012 . 	Democratic states have an obligation to not bolster repression abroad
High-tech surveillance technology has given repressive governments and police states a new lease on life . Now more than ever they can intrude into every aspect of peoples lives , ensuring that dissent is cowed for fear of the ever present threat of the security services . The vision of Orwells has become a living nightmare for people all over the world . Their power has made it extremely difficult for movements for reform , government accountability , and democracy , which have foundered when faced with these sophisticated security apparatuses -LRB- Valentino-Devries , 2011 -RRB- . By dominating the flow of information states have the power to keep their people in check and prevent them from ever posing a threat to their repressive status quo . Thus China blocks access to the internet and to other forms of communications in Tibet to ensure the absolute security of Tibets ideological and cultural realm . It cuts the Tibetan people off from outside world so as to prevent any rerun of the instability that occurred in 2008 , which China blamed on the influence of the Dalai Lama from outside . Only external help in alleviating this censorship could allow activists to organize effectively and perhaps to one day bring about genuine reform and justice to their societies . The surveillance equipment on which these regimes rely is often only available from firms and governments in the democratic world where , by and large , technology is generally far more advanced than in the non-democratic world . Without access to these technologies , the regimes would be far more hard-pressed to keep rigid tabs on their citizens , allowing for the seeds of dissent to take root . Only then can the forces clamouring for democracy hope to be able to organise networks of activists , and to have their views considered by the state . Valentino-Devries , J . US Firm Acknowledges Syria Uses its Gear to Block Web . Wall Street Journal . 29 October 2011 , Human Rights Watch , China : Attempts to Seal Off Tibet from Outside Information , 13 July 2012 , 	Advanced surveillance technology prevents dissidents from being able to organize and sue for freedom
Corporations are private entities that have the right to sell their services and to deal with agents foreign and domestic , including governments . However , this right can be limited when those actions are oppositional to the aims of the home state in which they are incorporated . The sale of surveillance technology to undemocratic regimes stands against the avowed aims of democracies and against their strategic interests in bolstering democracy abroad and maintaining a reputation for fair dealing . For this reason it is perfectly legitimate for governments to ban the corporations within their borders from selling dangerous technologies to foreign governments . Such is already the case with many kinds of strategic technology , especially weapons technology . The EU , for example , bans a range of arms sales to various oppressive states on these grounds , China in particular is an example where it would potentially be very lucrative to overturn the ban . Corporations benefit from the protection of democratic states , as they provide bases of operations that shield their right to property and ensure stability and the rule of law . If corporations wish to benefit from these provisions they must be willing to accept the instructions of the states that house them regarding what can and can not be sold to foreign powers . Elgin , B . House Bill May Ban US Surveillance Gear Sales . Bloomberg . 9 December 2012 . Banks , M. Senior MEP Calls for Freeze on Arms Sale to North Africa . The Parliament.com . 7 July 2011 . See the debatabase debate This House believes the European Union should lift its ban on member states selling arms to China 	The right of Western businesses to sell their services abroad can be curtailed when their actions stand counter to the interests of their home governments
A ban on the sale of surveillance technology to non-democracies serves ultimately as a statement of disapproval . It shows that the undemocratic regimes can not be trusted with the ability to spy on their people . This signal has several effects . An example of this international shaming affecting is the international bans on the use of landmines . Various states created a framework , the Ottawa Convention , in which their condemnation pressured nearly every other state , including authoritarian regimes , to follow suit . Domestically it serves to bolster peoples faith in the system of rights they value highly and enshrine in law . They can point to this ban as an example of their governments desire to make a better world and not to increase repression for the sake of power or profit . In the undemocratic states themselves , the regime leaders will be faced with a significant public relations blow as they come under criticism . This serves to embolden and empower holders of dissenting opinions and to spark pro-democratic discourse . In the international community it makes an emphatic value judgement on the merit of certain systems of government , namely the superiority of democracy and government accountability to the people , principles most non-democracies still pay some form of lip-service to . Overall , this policy boosts the credibility of democracy , while undermining the influence of undemocratic states . See the debatabase debate This House -LRB- as the USA -RRB- would sign the Ottawa convention banning landmines , Wexler , L . The International Deployment of Shame , Second-Best Responses , And Norm Entrepreneurship : The Campaign to Ban Landmine and the landmine Ban Treaty . Arizona Journal of International and Comparative Law . 2003 . 	This ban would have a powerful signalling effect expressing disapproval of non-democracies ' system of government
Western media and institutions often present an image of ` Africa ' which fails to understand the reality , and continues to position ` Africa ' as the ` other ' , ` unknown ' , and in need of assistance . Cities across Africa are an opportunity to change this idea of Africa . Forced evictions enable local , and national , governments to redesign African cities . Taking the case of South Africa forced evictions , in cities , have been central in promoting its new image . In 2010 , South Africa hosted the FIFA World Cup . Stadiums were built in Johannesburg , Cape Town , and Durban and provided the international community an opportunity to see the beauty of South Africa and confirm its ability to deliver as a BRIC country . Evictions occurred to create an aesthetic city , for the greater good . The evictions were only a small cost in the broader scale , whereby a better city would be built for all to enjoy , employment created , and tourists attracted . Although accurate figures of the number of evictions carried out , and/or number of residents displaced , are unavailable , cases have been reported where around 20,000 people could have been evicted in one settlement . See further readings : Werth , 2010 . 	Forced evictions are necessary to change perceptions .
Forced evictions have occurred globally across time , they show the natural progression of development . Cases across Europe and the USA show evictions were a feature of cities and urbanisation in the past . London experienced numerous slum clearances from the 18 to the 20 Century , one such clearance was the building of the Metropolitan railway to the City which destroyed the slums around Farringdon and forced relocation of 5-50 ,000 people from 1860-4 . Firstly , as modernisation theory shows transition occurs as society progresses from traditional to an age of mass consumption . Evictions often occur where inhabitants may not have the legal titles to occupy land . Evictions enable the transition from communities who occupy land based on traditional laws and beliefs to the emergence of a refined legal system . Secondly , development can only progress once new land becomes available - investment requires space . Therefore space has to be cleared for the city to be re-planned and new investments made . New investments can ensure African cities become sites of prosperity and continue to attract investors . Temple , 2008 	Forced evictions are a natural path of development .
A key character of global cities are the global connections made . Whether financial , economic , political , or cultural - global cities become a fundamental hub providing key resources . Forced evictions provide space in overcrowded , unorganised , cities whereby new architecture and districts can be built , and new trends set . Forced evictions provide spaces for new financial districts and beautiful cities to emerge across Africa . Recently plans have been set to implement ` Eco ' projects across African cities . Proposed projects include the Konza Techno City , Nairobi ; Eko Atlantic , Lagos ; HOPE , Ghana ; and Kampala Tower , Kampala , as part of the Venus Project . 	Forced evictions pave the road for African cities to set a trend towards Eco-Cities .
Slums and informal settlements need upgrading ; and the percentage of slums remains highest in Sub-Saharan Africa where slums can be up to 72 % of the urban population . Slums are unhealthy spaces - spaces where disease festers , there is limited access to sanitation and services , and overcrowding presents a squalid environment . Forced evictions are an effective urban planning tool to build healthier cities . Residents need to be evicted to enable infrastructure to be built -LRB- i.e . roads , lighting , sewage -RRB- , and services constructed -LRB- i.e . hospitals and schools -RRB- . Evictions enable a healthier environment and homes to be built in the process of redevelopment , beneficial for inhabitants in the long-run . This has been the motive of Kenya Vision 2030 which aims to provide access to adequate housing and a secure environment for urban dwellers . In upgrading slums , such as Kibera , the first stage required relocating residents in Kibera to multiple sites -LRB- i.e . Soweto East -RRB- . Fox , 2013 . Tibaijuka , 2004 Kenya Vision 2030 , 2013 . 	Forced evictions will create cities without slums in the long-run .
Africa is undergoing rapid urbanisation of 3.5 % per year -LRB- by comparison Chinas is only2 .3 % -RRB- . With the rising number of Megacities across Africa , the government need to introduce methods to control the sprawling nature of cities and create a sense of order . Mega , and Million , cities have become a representation of Africas urban future . Urbanisation in Africa is occurring much faster than the governments are able to cope with . As Mike Davis -LRB- 2007 -RRB- suggests African nations showcase a new type of city - a city of slums , decay , and prevailing revolution . The government need to take more control to effectively build future cities and define the path of urbanisation . Worldstat info , 2013 Megacities are defined as cities with over 10 million inhabitants -LRB- Wikipedia , 2013 -RRB- . 	Forced evictions are a means to control rapid urbanisation and gain global city status .
Sex work is employment , and therefore requires legal protection . It remains the government responsibility to provide security for their productive workforce and enable them to organise , and unionise . Sex work empowers women and men by providing a means of income , independence and control over sexual practices , and flexible employment . A legal framework will enable sex workers to be able to unionise . Unions remain a source of power in politics . Recognising sex work as legitimate work enables positive intervention . Firstly , taxes can be collected by the state ; and social security schemes established . Pensions can be set up and a safety-net for if workers become ill and or infected provided . Sex workers will be recognised as citizens , contributing to national wealth . Secondly , labour laws - such as minimal wages , hours , and safety , can be implemented . Labour laws are a means of regulating conditions of employment and workplaces preventing exploitation . ILO -LRB- 2013 -RRB- defines decent work as productive work ; work whereby rights are guaranteed and social protection provided ; and work that promotes social organisations . 	Sex work is legitimate work .
By including sex workers under a legal framework regulatory rules can be imposed on who enters the profession , such as is found in Senegal . The introduction of Senegals Identity Card means frequent health checks are required upon registration to be a prostitute . Additionally , the use of children and youths within the sex industry can be controlled . Global estimations of HIV/AIDS show young people are at highest risk . The UNDP -LRB- 2013 -RRB- called for a legal framework able to ensure the protection of children and youths . Regulation and monitoring is the only way to do so . 	Monitoring who enters the sex trade .
Legalising sex work will enable regulation . Responsive laws can promote safe sex practices and enable access to health services . Firstly , sex workers fear asking for health assistance , and treatment in public services , due to the illegal and criminalised nature of sex work . WHO -LRB- 2011 -RRB- predicted 1 in 3 sex workers received adequate HIV prevention ; and less are able to access additional health services . Access is limited due to the criminalised status , but also cost of treatment and transport , inconvenient opening hours , and humiliation . Secondly , the illegal nature of sex work has been attached to safe-practice tools . In Namibia , where prostitution remains commonly practiced but illegal , the criminalisation of accessing condoms enhances vulnerabilities . Following stop and searches by the police 50 % of sex workers reported their condoms were destroyed -LRB- OSF , 2012 -RRB- . Within the 50 % , 75 % subsequently had unprotected sex . Being defined as illegal puts workers at greater risk . Through legalisation sex workers can access tests and openly seek treatment , care and support . ICASA , 2013 , has argued national responses need to enable inclusive , and universal , access to health care treatment to combat HIV/AIDS . See further readings : Mtewwa et al , 2013 . 	Legalising ensures health care and safe sex .
Sex workers remain stigmatised across Africa . Legalising sex work enables the practice to be decriminalised , and rights provided . Being a sex worker where it is illegal creates additional risks and vulnerabilities . Reports from South Africa show that criminalizing sex workers makes them more likely to be victims of inhuman police action . Sex workers are raped , abused , and harassed . The risk of unsafe sex is therefore practiced outside of their occupation as no legal rights are provided . Legalising , and subsequently decriminalising , sex work will first , tackle corrupt police soliciting sex . Secondly , a new rights framework is provided . Sex workers are able to fight exploitation and claim rights for protection by prosecuting perpetrators if raped or abused . Sex work will continue either way - but legalising it means legal safety , protection , and negotiation , is provided . The legalisation of sex work has been introduced by the ANC Women 's League -LRB- ANCWL -RRB- in South Africa . See further readings : BBC , 2012 ; Daily News , 2013 -RRB- 	Decriminalising increses sex workers rights .
Sex crimes , typically defined as crimes of violence involving sex , are one of the worst kinds of crime , damaging its victim both physically and psychologically . For such a horrific crime , a suitable punishment is needed . Castration fits the bill perfectly . It has been shown that for many sex offenders , the crime is caused by both psychological and physical urges no rational counselling will prevent a repetition of the crime . Thus castration does not only stop further crimes by the offender -LRB- one of the main purposes of any punishment -RRB- , but it is a strong deterrent for prospective offenders . Furthermore , as Douglas Besharov argues , the sexual abuse and violence in prisons merely heightens their propensity to commit further crime -LRB- Besharow , 1992 -RRB- . Castration as the punishment for sex offenders suits both perpetrator and victim , providing an effective and specific punishment for a specific crime . 	Castration , as a punishment , is proportionate to sex crimes
Castration will help the offenders themselves , by freeing them from the urges that motivate them to re-offend . Court testimony has shown that many sexual criminals would dearly like to be free of these urges , but can not control their actions , much like a heroin addict can not control theirs . Thus a chemical cure for these urges will free the offender . Dr. Martin Holly , a leading sexologist in Prague , admitted none of the nearly 100 sex offenders who had been physically castrated had committed further offenses -LRB- Bilefsky , 2009 -RRB- . Dr. Fred Berlin , citing separate studies , claimed re-offending rates dropped below 15 % when participants were chemically castrated -LRB- Spalding , 1997 -RRB- . 	Sex offenders have a right to seek treatment for the urge to re-offend
Castration will also help the widespread hysteria about the crimes of a sexual nature . At the moment , there is a massive stigmatisation of sexual offenders , with them being named and shamed publicly -LRB- for example , by the News of the World newspaper in Britain in the summer of 2000 -RRB- , and hounded off their estates by mobs -LRB- as can be seen from the events after the News of The World campaign -RRB- . They are also subject to a large amount of violence in prison from other inmates . If castration is introduced , the public would know that these people are no longer a threat , and they would be allowed to get on with their lives . Castration removes both the public stigmatisation and personal suffering of sexual offenders , and should be embraced by the penal system . 	A policy of castration will reduce the public hysteria and panic surrounding sex crimes
The legislative and executive branches of the state is equipped with the power to order sentencing that best suits both the offender and society . For sex offenders that are adjudged to be at risk of re-offending no matter how long or harsh the prison sentence , castration should be ordered . Sexual castration would only be ordered however for those offenders whom it would almost certainly reduce the risk of re-offending , for it attacks the root , hormonal causes of their criminal activity . Once administered , the offender could be assessed and released if it was felt that his rehabilitation was complete and he was no further risk to society . 	The state has a duty to take effective steps to protect the public from sex offenders
The European area only consists of liberal democracies , which consistently honour their agreements . While historically a political union might have been necessary to further strengthen the Coal and Steel Treaty -LRB- the EU as it originated -RRB- between recently belligerent states , these countries can now obtain the benefit of the trade union through multilateral agreements . They simply have to regulate protectionism and tariffs so countries can remain competitive and barriers to trade remain low . In the event that a country does not comply , the external pressure from the other countries , together with soft sanctions , is more than enough to keep the trade bloc functional . 	A European trade bloc can succeed without a political union
The EU is too large for a democratic structure . Since it deals not with citizens directly but with Member States , a question arises as to which agents should make fundamental decisions . Should every Member State get an equal vote , or a vote in proportion to the size of its population ? If nation states get equal votes , a lot of people in larger states such as Germany , France or Spain may find themselves highly disenfranchised . On the other hand , if states get votes in proportion to the size of its population , countries such as Luxembourg will be forever hesitant to join , and rightly so , for its citizens would most likely be excluded . The democratic deficit in the EU is no less visible in practice . The Commission is not directly elected -LRB- 4 -RRB- ; Council politics are confusing , take a long time , and grind to a halt whenever Germany is in the middle of elections -LRB- 5 -RRB- ; and the voting turnout for European elections , where MEPs are elected , is too low to be considered a fair representation of voters views -LRB- 6 -RRB- . This poses a problem the moment the EU begins having legislative power in its Member States : we must not let more and more aspects of citizens lives be affected by an institution that is increasingly undemocratic . -LRB- 4 -RRB- About the European Commission , . -LRB- 5 -RRB- Pop , Valentina . German elections to set EU agenda in coming months , Agenda , . 2 September 2013 . -LRB- 6 -RRB- Dowling , Siobhn . Europes Unpopular Elections : Who Is to Blame for EU Voter Apathy ? , . 3 June 2009 . 	A European political union is by necessity undemocratic
The European project has gone too far for many European countries . For some such as Norway or Switzerland the EU has already gone far past the amount of integration they would be willing to allow . Even Member States are increasingly finding that the EUs intrusiveness and the cost of supporting smaller economies outweigh any potential benefit . Britain has expressed this discontent particularly strongly . -LRB- 11 -RRB- This is a problem for the European Union . The problem of its alienated Member States is only likely to get worse as it seeks to continue expanding : new countries will have increasingly divergent values and will be harder to integrate while deepening will mean more countries are left behind . In practice , this means that the EU will face massive barriers to its goal of integration , and compromise all its other goals in the process . The best solution then is to go back to a stage in the EUs development that every country supports ; the single market without the politics attached . This would bring the benefit of encouraging those who have been left out like Norway and Switzerland to join . -LRB- 11 -RRB- Goodbye Europe , . 8 December 2012 . 	The EU as a trade bloc would be more inclusive to current and new members
Many of the policies of the political union intrude on national legislation . In many cases , EU policies go against national traditions or redefine laws that were already functional . Occasionally EU policies even cause direct harm , when countries have less freedom to tailor them to their own conditions . During the past few years , the Commissions powers have included monitoring Member States implementation of austerity policies in return for bailouts . However , everyone , including the IMF , agrees that austerity was unsuccessful and has seriously hampered recovery -LRB- 7 -RRB- . Being a part of a political union inevitably means that sacrifices have to be made and this often intrudes on national sovereignty by reducing he room for manoeuvre of national governments . Intrusion by the EU would be justified if it creates substantially better laws or solid trade benefits ; however , regulations on the shape of cucumbers -LRB- 8 -RRB- do neither of these . The EU should not have legislative power on these areas . -LRB- 7 -RRB- Blanchard , Olivier ; Leigh , Daniel . Growth Forecast Errors and Fiscal Multipliers , . January 2013 . -LRB- 8 -RRB- Geiger , Susanne . The strange curvature of the cucumber , January 2007 . 	A European political union intrudes on its members sovereignty
The International Criminal Court is a major breakthrough in providing a permanent and durable system that can effectively prosecute and independently try war criminals . In the past there was no permanent framework for dealing with grave breaches of human rights protection , often allowing states to perform evil acts with impunity . Only for the very worst atrocities were special courts and tribunals set up . It should also act as a deterrent to future violations ; it may not reduce conflict but will encourage states to keep a tighter rein on their militaries . An attempt at a solution to the problem of enforcement of international criminal law is something to be applauded , for the same reason the criminal law on the domestic sphere is it saves lives , protects human rights and provides civilization to what would otherwise be anarchy . 	The ICC is a force for good , and the all states should be seen to be standing fully behind it .
Domestic legal systems will often suffer from a lack of judicial independence and potentially politicised prosecutions , and are also open to allegations of victors justice , or whitewashes by a judiciary biased towards the winners of the conflict . The ICC , as an effective court and with an independent judiciary , provide a suitable and unbiased climate for these cases to be heard in . While it is difficult to give any former head of state a fair trial , it is even more so in cases involving states divided along ethnic and political fault lines where any conviction could be seen as one based on continuing hatreds rather than evidence and criminal procedure . It is clearly in the interests of the United States and Israel to support the principle that where there is no independent judiciary cases can be moved to a higher level . These states as much as any other desire that those who commit large scale international crimes be brought to book . The ICC for example might provide an alternative method of going after terrorists . In addition , the principle of complementarity that the ICC should only prosecute where states have shown themselves unable or unwilling to prosecute - means that when a state can take effective action against war crimes , there will be no role for the ICC . This means that the US and Israel with independent judiciaries should have nothing to worry about unless their judiciary proves unwilling to prosecute if one of their own nationals commits a crime prosecutable by the ICC . 	Domestic courts are often incapable of providing a fair trial , when they fail the ICC fills the void .
In a democracy the voice of the people should carry weight in determining how the country acts internationally . According to a 2005 poll carried out by the Chicago Council on foreign relations 69 % of the US population are in favour of US participation in the ICC . This clearly shows that the US people are unconvinced by the arguments on the theorized drawbacks of the International Criminal Court and are happy for it to be ratified . 	The American people support ICC membership .
While aid threatens the economy , it also poses hazards for society in Africa . As Moyo contends , it merely fosters civil war as people fight over scarce resources that can not feasibly be equally distributed . According to Dr Napoleoni , $ 1.6 bn of $ 1.8 bn in aid received by Ethiopia in 1982 1985 was invested in military equipment . As a result aid is often limited ; some donors refuse to make payments unless a proportion is devoted to a specified cause or if some act is done in return . Moyo refers George Bushs demand that two thirds of his $ 15bn donation towards AIDs must go to pro-abstinence schemes . Such requirements further impede Africas ability to create a domestic policy and think for itself . Aid is solely to blame for its dependent state . 	Systemic aid ' is detrimental to African society
Whereas aid is mostly short term , particularly for individual projects or limited to the donors priorities , the other partner in a trading relationship is likely to represent an ongoing market for goods or services . So when a developing country has the capacity to engage in trade with another country , there is a strong likelihood that that trade will blossom into an ongoing trading partnership . This will allow a firm basis for a flow of cash or goods into the developing country , largely independently of whether the developed country is doing well or badly economically at a given moment . This can be contrasted to the flow of aid . It tends to be less predictable , both because it is manipulated for political reasons and also because it can be quite ephemeral and so , if the developed country goes through a bad economic time , the aid budget makes an easy target for a reduction in spending as is shown by the arguments in the United States where the USAID Administrator Shah `` We estimate , and I believe these are very conservative estimates , that H.R . 1 -LSB- bill passed by republicans in the house cutting foreign spending -RSB- would lead to 70,000 kids dying , '' . European trade with Africa may have decreased , but Chinas demand for oil and raw materials is blossoming , and Africa is becoming a major supplier . 	Trade is a long-term basis for international co-operation .
To gear up to be successful trading partners , developing countries often need to go through a number of key changes . As well as developing their own economy and their manufacturing or service sectors , they may need to build trade infrastructure in other ways . For example , increased trade would focus their attention on such things as good governance , the benefits of a broadly stable currency and internal security . Although such developments may come about as a facilitator for trade , in the best case scenario they may be seen as structural changes which will have a trickle-down benefit for the broader society in the underdeveloped country . China for example has reformed its agriculture , created a large manufacturing sector and is increasingly moving into high tech sectors as a result of trading with , particularly exporting to , the rich world and as a result has lifted more than 600 million people out of poverty between 1981 and 2004 . 	Trade provides developing countries with an important basis for their own improvement .
Between 1970 and 1998 when aid was at its peak , poverty rose alarmingly from 11 % to 66 % . This statistic alone suggests aid is damaging to African welfare . Africa began borrowing money in the 1970s when interest rates were low , but a rising rates in 1979 caused 11 African countries to default . Even after restructuring , they fell deeper into debt . While the Marshall Plan had been a success , the same approach would not favor Africa ; as Dambisa Moyo contends , it lacks the required institutions to utilize capital efficiently . Debt servicing meant money was passing from the poor to the rich , leaving Africa in a precarious global position . Furthermore , countries which have rejected aid as an approach to combat poverty have prospered , indicating an additional correlation between aid and a ruined economy 	Financial contributions from the West have proved detrimental for Africa .
Religious symbols can be seen as possible tools for fuelling division within society . When some women wear the Hijab it creates pressure on other Muslim women to also cover their heads . Pressure comes both socially from wanting to look like other women in their community and religiously from imams and family leaders pressing for observance . As such , Muslims themselves are divided and religious oppression against women is internalized . Approving of Muslim head coverings in society cements the Hijab as an essential tenet of Islam , in the minds of non-Muslims as well as believers . However , many different schools of Islam exist and as on other issues , they often disagree how to interpret the Koran 's dress prescriptions . Moderate interpretations accept modest forms of modern dress while severe interpretations require full covering with the Burka or similar veil . Banning the veil furthers the cause of moderate interpretations and prevents the entrenchment of severe interpretations . accessed on 24th July 2011 	Religious symbols cause division within Western society .
A ban would be simple to create and enforce . Religious symbols are for the most part meant to be shown therefore it is simple for police or authorities to check that someone is not wearing them . There are many societies that have had bans on a religious symbol in public buildings , for example in France where there is a ban on religious symbols in schools has been in force since 2004 . In France the ban is made even easier to enforce by restricting it to ` conspicuous ' religious apparel . Moreover when the ban is only when entering public buildings it can be enforced by the teacher , or the building 's security guards rather than being an issue for the police to deal with . , accessed 28/8/11 	A ban would be simple to enforce .
Religious symbols are seen to , in some cases , increase the equality divide between genders . As an example , the Muslim Hijab is considered by some as a very powerful symbol for the oppression of women , particularly in countries such as Saudi Arabia or Afghanistan where it is compulsory . Therefore , when it is worn in Western countries that encourage democracy and equality , the wearing of the Hijab is seen as almost counter-productive to the goals of democratic society . For this reason Belgium has recently banned the wearing of the full Muslim veil , much like France in 2010 . Often Muslim dress rules for women are seen as more severe than those for men . Inequality between men and women is a form of discrimination and liberal societies should fight all forms of discrimination . accessed on 23rd July 2011 	Many symbols are seen as a symbol of oppression on women .
Many societies are founded on secular values that do not permit the sponsorship of any religion by the state . British society aspires to this and has consciously acted to separate religion from state authority with many organisations such as the National Secular Society encouraging the suppression of any religious expression in public places . In this climate it is important that all citizens of the state are seen as equal . If some dress differently to others , deliberately identifying themselves as members of one religion , this can harm the unity and ethos of the state . This holds particularly true for institutions of the state like schools and government offices . In this way , it is possible to deduce that religious symbols are detrimental to the secular and equality focused identity of Western society . , accessed on 23rd July 2011 	Western societies are secularly focused
As well as division in society in general , religious symbols are also a source of division within school environments . The Hijab causes schools many problems . It is potentially divisive in the classroom , marking some children out as different from the others and above the rules that the school enforces for everyone else . This may lead to alienation and bullying . Full headscarves may also be impractical or dangerous in some lessons , for example PE , swimming , or in technology and science lessons where machinery is being operated . In the same way , there have been discussions as to whether to ban the display of Crucifixes in public classrooms . Authorities in Italy have followed through with the ban saying that such a Christian symbol segregates those who are not Christian . , accessed on 24th July 2011 	Religious symbols cause problems in schools .
Firstly , it limits social tension that may arise due to public dissatisfaction with high wages ; see the attacks on the famous banker Sir Fred Goodwin in the UK . Secondly , people may feel that society recognizes them as being more equal , increasing the perceived self-worth of many , avoiding feelings of inferiority and worry about their social worth , and making them feel closer to other people . See , for example , Sweden , which has the lowest Gini Coefficient -LRB- indicating low levels of inequality -RRB- in the world , and also some of the highest levels of GDP per capita , life expectancy and literacy rates , and low levels of crime and obesity . Furthermore , a Forbes report suggests Sweden is one of the happiest countries in the world -LRB- along with Denmark , Finland and Norway , 3 other countries with a low Gini Coefficient -RRB- . 	Equality is in and of itself a good thing
When wages are better standardized across professions , people are less likely to feel socially pressured into seeking out a higher paid job . As such , they are more likely to choose their job on the basis of other factors , such as how much they enjoy the job , or how ethical the working practices of a company are . This will lead to happier , and hence more productive , employees . 	This will enable people to better choose their jobs
Some resources most notably housing are very important to large numbers of people , and owning them gives people a great deal of happiness . This policy will limit richer people owning several properties while others live in rented accommodation or smaller houses , as price competition for such properties will be less intense , and poorer people will be better able to compete through savings . Estimates in 2005 suggested there were 6.8 million second homes in the USA . This is a good thing , as it is likely that a person -LRB- or family -RRB- values their first property more than another person values their second property , known as the law of diminishing marginal returns . This is perhaps the best example of the ways in which inequality leads to worse outcomes for society . 	This will limit the control of the rich over key scarce resources
As a result of having to pay important directors and employees a lower wage , businesses will be able to produce their goods and services for a lower cost , and sell therefore sell them for a lower price . This will lead to a more equitable distribution of wealth , as the poorest will become relatively richer , as prices will fall . This will also be true for small businesses , which will be able to obtain cheaper legal and financial advice and business consultancy , and are therefore more likely to succeed . Sports provide a good example of this . In major league baseball salaries for the players more than doubled in real terms between 1992 and 2002 while ticket prices rose 50 % . As players wages take more than 50 % of teams revenues a cap would mean a significant cut in costs that could be passed on to the consumer . 	This will distribute wealth more evenly
Entrenching the respective rights of individuals and the government adds clarity to issues where the boundaries of the law are vague . Not every time that civil rights are eroded is it the result of the government overstepping what were previously thought to be the clear boundaries of the states power ; sometimes there is a legitimate grey area regarding the meeting of two rights . For example , some people contest whether anti-social behavioral orders -LRB- ASBOs -RRB- which bar individuals from certain activities or place or CCTV cameras , are a legitimate use of the coercive power of the state . Under the status quo , there is no superordinate legal document to which an individual or the government can point when they dispute whether or not a law is legitimate . Thus , while popular opinion can prevent the government from brazen violations of citizens rights , more nuanced infringements persist with impunity . A constitution would subject controversial laws to judicial review , yielding a more precise ruling on their constitutionality . Regardless of which way the judiciary rules , it must be backed up by reasoned argument and interpretation of specific legal principles explicitly outlined in the constitution . It is crucial to have an independent metric by which we evaluate when the government reaches the limits of what it may justly legislate . 	The Constitution as a Means of Evaluating the Legitimacy of Laws
The documents that currently make up the written component of the UK 's informal constitution provide an accessible starting point . Such ancient texts and treaties as the Magna Carta would provide for a smooth transition from commonly-accepted legal principles to the formal entrenchment of those principles in the clauses of a constitution . While under the status quo all laws passed by parliament are considered of equal significance , there is an informal recognition by some jurists that certain laws , such as the Human Rights Act , enjoy a favored position within a hierarchy of laws . A written constitution would simply help to formalize this de facto hierarchy . 	Much of the Work is Already Done
Put simply assault weapons are designed for assault , therefore their proliferation should be prohibited in law . To put things into the general context of gun crime within the United States every year 17,000 people are killed , 70 percent of them with guns and nearly 20,000 people commit suicide by shooting themselves . Murder by gunfire particularly affects children , in total well over a million Americans have died in this manner and 80 people continue to be shot in the states every day . So some form of gun control is necessary and a ban on assault weapons is a good starting point . Out of 62 mass murders since 1982 almost half the weapons used , 67 out of 142 , were semi-automatic handguns and more than 30 were assault weapons . The period of the Federal Assault Weapons Ban from 1994-2004 with the exception of 1999 , the year of the Columbine massacre -LRB- which notably involved a semi-automatic produced before the ban -RRB- , was also a peaceful period in terms of numbers of mass shootings . While assault weapons are responsible for a relatively small amount of total gun deaths in the USA that is not a good reason for not banning them ; any life saved is worthwhile . Taking the low estimate of 1 % of deaths from assault weapons that still means 90-100 people a year while the high 7 % means 630-700 lives that could be saved . Australia shows the advantages on implementing restrictions on guns -LRB- in Australias case much stricter than anything being contemplated in this debate so the effect would not be as pronounced -RRB- . In the wake of a mass shooting in Port Arthur in 1996 strict gun laws were implemented . An evaluation by the Australian National University found laws saved $ 500 million and halved the number of people killed by guns saving 200 lives every year . Masters , Brian , Americas deadly obsession with guns The Telegraph 16 December 2012 , Follman , Mark , et al . , A Guide to Mass Shootings in America , , 15 December 2012 , Wang , Sam , Did the federal ban on assault weapons matter ? , , 14 December 2012 , Matthews , Jake , For Lives and Liberty : Banning Assault Weapons in America , Harvard University Institute of Politics , 2012 , Peters , Rebecca , Will Sandy Hook massacre be Americas tipping point , , 17 December 2012 , 	A ban would save lives
As New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg argues `` We 've got to really question whether military-style weapons with big magazines belong on the streets of America in this day and age . Police chiefs such as Ralph Godbee of Detroit argue `` We 're talking about weapons that are made for war you can shoot 50 to 60 rounds within a minute . In a self defense scenario the person defending themselves need to have enough ammunition to provide deterrence , however they would have to be unwise to take on several assailants so there should be little need to have more than 10 rounds in the magazine . Law enforcement expert Leonard J. Supenski has testified because of potential harm to others in the household , passersby , and bystanders , too much firepower is a hazard as in self defense , the defenders will often fire until they have expended all the bullets in their magazine . To use an assault weapon would to spray an assailant with bullets from an assault weapon would be using disproportionate force that will not only harm the assailant but will likely hit anyone else nearby . Even those who are against an assault weapons ban such as David Kopel concede that for the most part these are not useful weapons for hunting . These weapons are intended to wound rather than to kill so would certainly not be useful in taking down a deer . Moreover he also concedes a hunter will carry only a few rounds so the large capacity magazine is also useless for sport . Simpson , Connor , Dianne Feinstein Wants to Ban Assault Weapons , , 16 December 2012 , Jackson , Jesse , Police Chiefs Are Right : Ban Assault Weapons , , 3 August 2012 , Kopel , David B. , Rational Basis Analysis of Assault Weapon Prohibition , , Vol .20 , 1994 pp.381-417 , p. 393 , 	Assault weapons are not necessary for self defence or hunting .
Many who are pro guns argue that it would be illegitimate for assault weapons to be banned while the police have them . Police forces , however , are going to be much more likely , and able to give them up when a ban is in place . The police dont want to be involved in an arms race with criminals to have the biggest guns ; just look at the British police force where there is little gun crime and few shootings of police officers it is not felt that there is the need to have police armed with more than a taser or even truncheon . Put simply a ban on assault weapons can help reverse the arms race between police and criminals . Civil liberties would also be enhanced as law enforcement agencies would not need to devote so many resources into monitoring assault weapons purchases and those who have done the purchasing . Instead they would be able to simply target all assault weapons purchases as needing immediate attention . Finally we must remember that this ban enhances the highest liberty at all ; life . Today as Justice Breyer says gun possession presents a greater risk of taking innocent lives than not having a gun . Keating , Ruth , This House would arm the police , Peter Squires ed . , , 2011 , Matthews , Jake , For Lives and Liberty : Banning Assault Weapons in America , , 2012 , Masters , Brian , Americas deadly obsession with guns , , 16 December 2012 , 	Banning assault weapons increases liberty and security
Yes a ban would not immediately take assault weapons off the streets but there would be significant long term benefits as highlighted by Connecticut Senator Joe Liberman `` We ought to restore the assault weapons ban -- not to take anybody 's guns away that they have now , but to stop the manufacturing of these weapons . '' The ban would stop manufacturers from making the weapons and with the legislation improved from the 1994 version it would be possible to prevent the cosmetic changes that were made to keep guns on the market . This would mean that prices both in the USA and globally would increase as there would be less supply . One positive result might also be help to change the United States position on the arms trade treaty which would further restrict global supply . This would answer Mexican calls to cut off the supply of guns into the country that helps make the drugs violence in the country so deadly both by meaning less of the weapons are made and by helping to cut off the route through which weapons get into Mexico . A ban on assault weapons would not fix Mexico but it would deprive arms smugglers of the closest , easiest and cheapest place to buy the arms used by the drugs cartels . Jamieson , Dave , Connecticut Gov . Dannel Malloy Calls For Tougher Gun Controls , , 16 December 2012 , Epstein , Edward , NRA clout is outgunning Feinstein / Assault weapons ban renewal in doubt , , 28 June 2004 , Urquhart , Conal , Arms trade treaty failure is disappointing , says William Hague , , 28 July 2012 , Mexico urges U.S. to review gun laws after Colorado shooting , , 21 July 2012 , Chertoff , Emily , Regulating U.S.-Made Assault Weapons : The International Case , , 19 December 2012 , 	An assault weapons ban would stop the manufacture of many of the deadliest guns .
Changes in modern warfare dictate the need for an impartial , rapidly-deploying , multi-national force . Modern warfare is no longer the trench battles of battalions aligned to a flag , it is increasingly police actions designed to prevent the resort to warfare in the first place or enforce ceasefires once they have begun . As such , the impartiality of a UN standing army would be highly valuable , offering both parties in the conflict a neutral peacemaker and peacekeeper . Contrast this to the perceived differences in attitude between troops from Britain , the US , Russia and France to warring sides in the Balkans . It would be free of accusations of meddling and self-interest that accompany the participation of troops from neighbouring states in UN interventions -LRB- for example , Nigeria in West African missions -RRB- . A UN standing army could overcome local civilian suspicion , free from the threat of propaganda from those opposed to it and free from the restraints of state power on those troops involved . Furthermore , a UN standing army would be able to deploy much faster than current peacekeeping missions which are held back by the bureaucracy of finding troops , equipment and funding . The present system takes months to put forces in the field , and these are often inadequate to the task in hand , as member states have pledged fewer troops than were requested and they then struggle to co-ordinate across cultural and linguistic barriers . This has meant the UN has often acted too late , with too little force , and has thereby failed to avert humanitarian disasters in such places as Central Africa , Bosnia , Sierra Leone and Somalia . A UN standing army would be permanently available and able to deploy rapidly to contain crises before they turn into full-scale wars and humanitarian disasters . Without an independent army , the UN has no capacity to avert such catastrophes for it simply can not raise forces quickly or effectively enough . -LSB- 1 -RSB- Johansen , R. C. -LRB- 2006 -RRB- . A United Nations Emergency Peace Service to Prevent Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity , p. 23 . 	A UN standing army would be ideally suited to respond to contemporary crises .
A UN standing army would be more effective than the variety of troops staffing missions under the current system . At present most UN operations are supplied by developing nations who hope to make a profit from the payments they receive for their services , but who are under-equipped and badly trained . Forces from the major powers are provided sparingly and only after substantial public pressure or when there exists an incentive for their use . A UN standing army would be better prepared , both in regards to training and equipment , and its soldiers would have greater motivation as they would have made a choice to enlist , rather than being conscripts forced by their own states to fight someone elses war . A single UN force would also have better command and control than in current situations , when different national forces and their commanders often fail to work effectively together in the field for cultural and linguistic reasons . Successful forces such as the French Foreign Legion , the Indian army and the Roman army show that issues of language and culture need not be problems in combat situations . They can be overcome through a strong professional ethos and a commitment to a mutual cause , values that can only be expected to develop if troops prepare , train and fight together . 	A UN standing army would be more effective in operations themselves .
A strong , effective and impartial United Nations standing army would deny powerful military states the right to bully and blackmail rivals into submission with the threat of military force . A UN army would be able to balance that threat with their own willingness to come to the aid of states under military duress . The United States , unwilling to risk a protracted conflict against a respected , well-trained multi-national force would have to fall back . To use an example , American military intervention in Vietnam , against the wishes of the majority of the population , could have been prevented had a U.N. standing army existed to respond to the wishes of the Vietnamese people and stand against the United States intervention . The existence of such a military rival would therefore force the United States to increase its investment in its State Department and diplomatic solutions to political crises . Ultimately , peace would be more effectively maintained . 	A UN Standing Army would solve the problem of American military hegemony .
Everyones privacy can be greatly harmed by the Internet . Some websites store information . Some ask us to fill in information which can be sold to other sites for commercial purposes . As the Internet gains more and more users the temptation for criminals to gain our private information becomes greater . Hackers can hide their true location when engaging in illegal activities online , so the likelihood of their being brought to justice is low . Whenever people post something online , it becomes almost impossible to erase , and with the proliferation of social networks posting personal information online is becoming second nature , this is a dangerous precedent . Take for example the posting of our locations online via geotagging , this for many is an action which doesnt take much consideration , however , to demonstrate the danger of this designer Barry Borsoom setup the website PleaseRobMe.com which would grab geocaching data and tell people when a persons house was potentially empty . With the aid of the Internet then , we are symbolically sleepwalking into a big brother style existence , in an information age all data about ourselves is an important asset and one which needs defending . The infringement and degradation of our privacy as a side-result of the Internet should be of great concern , and it is potentially one of the most detrimental effects the Internet could have on society . 	The Internet is a threat to privacy
The ability for anyone to be able to publish anything online without barriers resulted in a large amount of information which could not only be incorrect but could also be criminal , offensive or discriminatory if it were available to the general public . This sort of information would not usually be widely published via offline channels , but with the advent of the Internet it is very easily accessible by anyone like never before , and this is a dangerous president . A cavalcade of propaganda from extremist groups such as religious zealots or Neo-Nazis for example can be accessed by anyone around the world . This is dangerous as vulnerable people could easily be taken in and exploited if the discovered this material . It is quite often found that lone-wolf terrorists , for example , have gotten their information and inspiration from the Internet . Garry Reid , deputy assistant secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Combating Terrorism in the USA states that Enabled by 21st-century technology , extremists have optimized the use of Internet chat rooms , Web sites and e-mail chains to spread their virulent messages and reach a global audience of potential recruits . But it is not only terrorists who are utilizing the Internet at a detriment to society . Various reports have linked a sharp rise in paedophilia with the growth of the Internet as it is an easy and often anonymous way to share such material with the world . The ability for anyone to publish anything online could clearly do considerable harm to society , which would have otherwise been much less prevalent and easier to control and regulate . 	The Internet has allowed a large amount of criminal , offensive and discriminatory information to be easily accessed .
The Internet has become a major source of information for many people . However , online information has usually not gone through the same checks as newspaper articles , books or factual television programming . There is a higher risk that some of the facts or quotations from a particular source in an article are false . Whereas newspapers might lose customers if people find out they have been selling lies , a blog and other online content can be easily created and uploaded as well as just as quickly being deleted . If people base their opinions on the information they find online , they could well be basing their opinion on false information . Take for example the 2006 conspiracy film Loose Change which has had millions of views . A report from the thinktank Demos in a report titled state that the film contains a ... litnay of errors , misattributions , vague insinuations , subtle misquotes , and outright falsehoods ... Since the Internet gives equal space to material of greatly varying quality , the degree to which the internet can been viewed as being a total force for good is drawn into question . If an informed society is an empowered society it therefore stands to reason that a misinformed society is disempowered society . 	The quality of information online can not always be relied upon
It is often the case in classroom environments that the vast majority of students are eager , to various extents , to learn . Disruption almost always originates with one or a few students who act up for attention or to cause problems . Corporal punishment deals effectively with these unruly individuals who make learning more difficult and school time less productive for the rest of the class . Without effective disciplinary mechanisms , these troublemakers impose costs on all of their classmates . By introducing corporal punishment , troublesome students are forced to internalize the costs , disincentivizing similar behavior in future . It is deeply unfair to the rest of the class that the teacher 's time and effort be sapped by dealing with uncooperative students at the expense of more interested classmates . Application of corporal punishment demonstrates a dedication to the right to education , which should not be disrupted by unruly individuals seeking to undermine the authority of the teacher . 	Keeping the few unruly children in line makes learning possible for the majority of students
In terms of conflict resolution , without access to corporal punishment , the teacher-student relationship is at an imperfect equilibrium in the context of Game Theory . In this scenario , the two players , the teacher and the student , have a set of options . The teacher , when making a threat , can either follow through on the threat and enact corporal punishment , or he can not do so . The student can either consider the threat to be credible and will thus modify his behaviour in accordance with the teacher 's demands , or he can determine the threat to be non-credible and thus `` call his bluff '' . Without the ability to follow through on the threat , an imperfect equilibrium is reached in which the teacher 's bluff is called and his authority undermined . With the ability to make good on the threat , however , the teacher can either effectively intimidate potential miscreants or deliver on the promise of punishment . This produces an efficient equilibrium in which the teacher has greater control over the class . To take an example from international relations , the relations between the United States and Israel can be analyzed in this way . Currently , when Israel makes a decision to expand settlement building in Palestinian territory the United States threatens a withdrawal of certain supports . Israel can either call their bluff or fold . Currently , because Israel does not consider the United States ' threats to be credible , it persists in its operations unabated . Thus this situation is an imperfect equilibrium . Were the United States to actually make good on its threats , Israel would be forced to suffer the punishment if they persist in their activities , incentivizing them instead to be cooperative . From the international stage to the classroom , conflict resolution plays out in much the same way . Myerson , Roger . 1997 . Game Theory : Analysis of Conflict . Cambridge : Harvard University Press . 	The threat and capacity for violence is essential for efficient conflict resolution
Teachers are there to help children learn , not to be their friends . While teachers can maintain a convivial atmosphere in the classroom , having access to corporal punishment is simply an extra weapon in the arsenal of learning tools available to teachers , giving them greater control over the classroom and their students , an essential part of the teaching environment . When the teacher does not control the classroom , teaching is difficult , or impossible . Studies show that teachers , parents , and most students agree that discipline is an essential part of classroom order . In a Gallup poll in 2002 76 % of the public thought that discipline in US Schools was a very or somewhat serious problem . If the teacher is busy dealing with unruly children , and thus forced to divert from the lesson plan , there is less time to devote to actually teaching the students who want to learn . For the sake of students ' futures they must be brought to heal , by the threat and application of force when necessary . 	Discipline is more important than enjoyment in the classroom
Generating a natural respect for authority is a necessary priority of the state , and thus of education whose purpose is to prepare young people to be effective members of the state . To do this it is necessary to maintain the threat of , and to have the capacity to make recourse to , corporal punishment . There is nothing wrong with students having a bit of fear with regard to teachers , just as it is right to have a healthy fear of the state , insofar as transgressions of the law will be met by serious repercussions . Coddling children and limiting the level of punishments that can be leveled against them too strictly does not prepare them for the real world in which infractions of the law have serious consequences . It is this lack of respect that is often blamed for increasing crime , Estelle Morris , then UK Education Secretary in 2002 blamed a `` cycle of disrespect '' between schools and home that leads to crime . The existence of scholastic corporal punishment hammers this reality home at an early age and better acclimates children for their future as adult members of society . Bloom , Scott . 1995 . `` Spare the Rod , Spoil the Child ? A Legal Framework for Recent Corporal Punishment Proposals '' . Golden Gate University Law Review . 	Engendering respect for authority at an early age is essential for individuals to engage successfully in society :
We all love the traditional white Christmas . When we think of Christmas we see snowy scenes , with people skating and sledging , and children making snowballs and snowmen . Later the families gather inside around a warm fire to celebrate . This is the sort of Christmas shown on greeting cards and celebrated in so many songs -LRB- for example , White Christmas , Jingle Bells , Frosty the Snowman , Walking in a Winter Wonderland , etc . -RRB- . It is n't a proper Christmas without snow . `` The interest in snowy Christmases has its origins in the colder climate of the period 15501850 when Britain was in the grip of a Little Ice Age That way , the traditional image was created . 	Christmas is inextricably linked with an image of a snowy wonderland .
For most people Christmas today is not about a religious festival , but about consumption , greed and shopping . Wishing for a snowy white Christmas is about turning the clock back to a time when life was simpler . Instead of focusing on getting presents , getting fat and getting drunk , a white Christmas is something money ca n't buy . It symbolizes time with family , playing outdoors in the snow , making your own entertainment and enjoying the wonder of nature . Who would n't prefer a Christmas like that ? 	Wishing for a white Christmas shows a desire to return to the true nature of the holiday
The ideal of a white Christmas also speaks to the old pagan festivals . The winter solstice -LRB- Yule , Saturnalia -RRB- was a time of hope in the cold and darkness , as nights stopped getting longer and people looked for the promise of new birth in springtime . The Christian Church recognized the power of existing winter festivals and chose December 25th for their own nativity celebrations . People still feel a need to move in time with the seasons , and snow represents winter at its most extreme . For these reasons the dream of a white Christmas satisfies a need deep within us . 	The dream of a white Christmas satisfies a need for hope deep within us .
A ban on nuclear testing is almost universally desired in virtually every country , with the exception of a few rogue states , such as North Korea . Even in the United States , which has been reticent to sign , the popular opinion is overwhelmingly in favor of the ban . There is a very strong political impetus to enact a ban , and actually doing so would show that the international community could actually agree upon something . It is difficult to make the case that international cooperation will accomplish anything regarding contentious issues when it can not even act on one that has universal support virtually everywhere . A ratification of the ban could thus restore faith in the ability of the international community to accomplish important goals . 	Virtually all countries and peoples around the world support a ban on testing .
Some countries have been reticent to sign the CTBT for fear it would limit their ability to either expand or to begin their nuclear arsenals . The United States stands as one of the only such non-signers , in the company of such countries as Iran , China , and North Korea . The United States fears the limiting of the ability for it to defend itself with nuclear armament . However , in reality the United States will benefit politically and militarily by signing , and the world will be benefited by a greater chance for peace without nuclear proliferation . American accession would benefit the US politically by increasing its credibility as a responsible international player with a respect for international law . Often the US is viewed by the rest of the world as a cowboy pursuing its own aims and only paying lip service to the international community 's opinion . If the US were to show a degree of respect to international law , particularly through signing CTBT , it will be more able to gain support from other countries for its goals . Also , if the US signs , it will encourage other states to sign , such as China , which has said that its signature is contingent upon that of the US . US involvement in the CTBT , and the Chinese involvement expected to follow from it , will give the treaty far greater weight , and will generate greater obedience toward it , as countries recognize that it is binding on all states , not just the weak . Furthermore , from a military standpoint , the US has nothing to lose from signing as it may still retain its present nuclear stockpiles , as well as to develop new delivery and guidance systems , provided they are not tested with live nuclear warheads . Also , it has much to gain , as the ratification of the treaty will prevent other states from developing nuclear weapons , keeping the club of nuclear powers small and influential . Clearly , it is in the interest of the United States to sign the treaty , in order to benefit not only itself , but also the international community . Shah , Anup . 2009 . `` Nuclear Weapons '' . Global Issues . Available : 	It is in the interest of major powers that are not yet signatories , particularly the United States , to sign in order to secure their position of military superiority .
Nuclear weapons are the most destructive weapons ever created , it is right that they should be limited ; something that the test ban treaty will be a step towards . An internationally ratified Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty -LRB- CTBT -RRB- on the testing of nuclear weapons would serve to hamper attempts by countries currently not in possession of nuclear weapons from acquiring them . Of course , a country could still develop a nuclear weapon without testing , but little faith can be put in a weapon that is entirely untested ; all countries that currently possess nuclear weapons conducted tests . A comprehensive and internationally ratified treaty against testing would serve as an important signaling device to countries considering developing nuclear weapons . Just as a taboo has formed around the use of nuclear weapons due to international accords denouncing their use , so too would a ban on testing generate a norm against it . Countries rely on their reputations in international relations ; states will fear loss of credibility should they be seen flouting the ban , either by testing weapons themselves or by supplying materials to countries seeking to perform tests . Furthermore , fear of sanction by other countries and the United Nations will prevent states from engaging in nuclear tests for fear of economic and political damage incurred there from . 	The Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty will help to stop the development and proliferation of nuclear weapons .
Scanning and detection technology has become so advanced in recent years that it is virtually impossible for a country to detonate a nuclear device without it being detected . Compliance with the treaty can be monitored through the means of seismology , hydroacoustics , infrasound , and radionuclide monitoring . The technologies are used to monitor the underground , the waters and the atmosphere for any sign of a nuclear explosion . The monitoring network consists of 337 facilities located across the world . The system is so sensitive that it was able to detect the disintegration of the space shuttle Columbia . Furthermore , the treaty 's system of inspection will reveal any suspicious activity regarding testing . Clearly , efficacy in terms of determining who might be testing weapons is not an issue . When countries are found to be violating the CTBT , heavy political and economic sanctions can be imposed which will serve to force countries back into compliance with the treaty . 	The technology exists to effectively verify whether any country has broken the treaty .
Nuclear weapons tests release vast quantities of radiation into the atmosphere , contaminating water supplies , soil , and harming human , plant , and animal health irreparably . The bomb tests conducted by the United States between 1951 and 1963 , for example , released 148 times the radioactivity of the Chernobyl disaster . Radioactivity released by Russian tests in the 1950s and 1960s are estimated to have released even greater amounts of radiation . It is estimated that 2.4 million people currently living will die due to cancers caused by radioactivity generated by nuclear testing . The genetic damage created by nuclear tests has killed , and will kill many innocent people . Accidents can also occur , as in the United States when an accident in 1954 saw inhabitants of towns near a test site blanketed in the radioactive plume . Such horrors can not be allowed to continue , but would be all the more likely in poorer countries trying to test weapons . Furthermore , nuclear testing has done untold damage to the environment and ecosystems around the world . In the Pacific , for example , hydrogen bomb testing destroyed whole ecologies . Even when tested underground nuclear weapons are dangerous to the environment , with radiation seeping out of test sites at half of all such tests . It is imperative that the environmentally devastating effects of these weapons not be allowed to continue through testing . Costandina , Titus . 2001 . Bombs in the Backyard : Atomic Testing and American Politics . Reno : University of Nevada Press . Foster , John . 2009 . The Ecological Revolution : Making Peace with the Planet . New York : Monthly Review Press . 	Nuclear weapons tests cause severe harm to people and the environment .
Sometimes people will do bad things in order to achieve good and necessary results . For example , the Allied bombing campaigns in the Second World War would be highly likely to amount to a war crime under the Rome Statute if they were done today . They were indiscriminate , they targeted civilians , and additionally even at the time were recognised as having little military value . Instead the idea was to terrorise the civilian population . Yet they were considered to be necessary as showing the allies were doing something to aid the Soviet Union . The same might be the case with the dropping of the atomic bomb on Hiroshima and Nagasaki , they clearly targeted civilians , yet if they helped end the war without a ground invasion of Japan then this war crime might have been for the greater good . Head of state immunity allows individuals to take unpopular and difficult decisions that are necessary for a greater good in government without fear of prosecution for their actions . We need our leaders to be able to take decisions based on the national interest , not based upon their concern for their life after office . Grayling , A.C. , Bombing civilians is not only immoral , its ineffective , , 27 March 2006 , See the debatabase debate 	Greater good fear of prosecution problematic
Heads of state and senior politicians are targets for political stunts . This could be seeking to get a political opponent locked up so as to benefit from the removal of an opponent . Alternatively it may be as part of a publicity stunt to highlight their own issue of concern or organisation . In both cases the trial does not need to convict as the figure being in a trial will be enough to damage them and provide publicity . In 2009 , following a request by supporters of Palestine , an arrest warrant was sought at Westminster magistrates court for the arrest of Tzipi Livni , who was Foreign Minister of Israel during Israels 2008-2009 invasion of the Gaza Strip , also known as Operation Cast Lead . At the time of the attempted arrest Livni was no longer in office but the action was clearly a stunt . Livni was not arrested in the end , because she cancelled her trip to the UK , and the warrant was dropped by the Director of Public Prosecutions , Kier Starmer . However , a needless diplomatic incident was still caused . Hastings , Rob , DPP blocks bid to arrest Tzipi Livni for war crimes , , 7 October 2011 , 	Helps avoid political stunt trials
Freedom of speech and expression are protected by the first amendment to the US constitution and teachers are entitled to freedom of speech and their academic freedom as much as anyone else . If a science teacher does not believe that the evidence supports evolution then why should s/he have to teach evolution as fact rather than just as one of several competing theories ? The Tennessee bill protects freedom of expression by freeing teachers to include whatever other angles on controversies such as evolution or climate change as they wish . Legal Information Institute , First Amendment : An overview , , 19 August 2010 , 	Freedom of speech should apply to teachers as much as anyone else
This bill that opens the door to creationism is really about changing the way that teaching is done to make it more critical and analytical . This is an improvement in scientific education as it will help ensure that science is about critical , constructive discourse rather than just imbibing facts . This bill aims to inform students about scientific evidence and to help students develop critical thinking skills necessary to becoming intelligent , productive , and scientifically informed citizens . How can students be critical and learn to analyse if there is only one theory available to them through which to look at and analyse those facts ? That would not be education , it would be indoctrination . Zimmer , Robin , Critical Thinking , Analysis Foster Good Science , , 11 March 2011 , Dunn , House Bill 368 An Act to amend Tennessee Code Annotated , Title 49 , Chapter 6 , Part 10 , relative to teaching scientific subjects in elementary schools , , New Tennessee law : encouraging creationism or academic freedom , , 23 April 2012 , 	Teaching creationism as well as evolution gives students freedom to choose
What this bill allows is for the facts to be taught and then seen through the lens of various theories . The bill requires that the schools within the state remain within the state science curriculum . It protects the teaching of scientific information , and shall not be construed to promote any religious or non-religious doctrine . Evolution will therefore still have to be taught and wont be replaced wholesale by any other theory . The result therefore is that this Tennessee law opens up academic enquiry and science rather than shutting it down as opponents claim . Dunn , House Bill 368 An Act to amend Tennessee Code Annotated , Title 49 , Chapter 6 , Part 10 , relative to teaching scientific subjects in elementary schools , State of Tennessee , 	The bill does not exclude evolution just allows room for other theories
It is possible to conceive of human persons almost totally lacking in a capacity for suffering , or indeed a capacity to develop and possess interests . Take for example a person in a persistent vegetative state , or a person born with the most severe of cognitive impairments . We can take three possible stances toward such persons within this debate . Firstly we could experiment on animals , but not such persons . This would be a morally inconsistent and specieist stance to adopt , and as such unsatisfactory . We could be morally consistent , and experiment on both animals and such persons . Common morality suggests that it would be abhorrent to conduct potentially painful medical research on the severely disabled , and so this stance seems equally unsatisfactory . Finally we could maintain moral consistency and avoid experimenting on the disabled , by adopting the stance of experimenting on neither group , thus prohibiting experimentation upon animals . 	Some groups of people have less capacity for suffering than most animals
As experimenting on animals is immoral we should stop using animals for experiments . But apart from it being morally wrong practically we will never know how much we will be able to advance without animal experimentation if we never stop experimenting on animals . Animal research has been the historical gold standard , and in the case of some chemical screening tests , was for many years , by many western states , required by law before a compound could be released on sale . Science and technology has moved faster than research protocols however , and so there is no longer a need for animals to be experimented on . We now know the chemical properties of most substances , and powerful computers allow us to predict the outcome of chemical interactions . Experimenting on live tissue culture also allows us to gain insight as to how living cells react when exposed to different substances , with no animals required . Even human skin leftover from operations provides an effective medium for experimentation , and being human , provides a more reliable guide to the likely impact on a human subject . The previous necessity of the use of animals is no longer a good excuse for continued use of animals for research . We would still retain all the benefits that previous animal research has brought us but should not engage in any more . Thus modern research has no excuse for using animals . 	Research can be done effectively without experimenting on living creature
Animal research , by its very nature necessitates harm to the animals . Even if they are not made to suffer as part of the experiment , the vast majority of animals used , must be killed at the conclusion of the experiment . With 115 million animals being used in the status quo this is no small issue . Even if we were to vastly reduce animal experimentation , releasing domesticated animals into the wild , would be a death sentence , and it hardly seems realistic to think that many behaviourally abnormal animals , often mice or rats , might be readily moveable into the pet trade . It is prima fasciae obvious , that it is not in the interest of the animals involved to be killed , or harmed to such an extent that such killing might seem merciful . Even if the opposition counterargument , that animals lack the capacity to truly suffer , is believed , research should none the less be banned in order to prevent the death of millions of animals . 	Animal research necessitates significant harm to the animals involved
The differences between us and other vertebrates are a matter of degree rather than kind . Not only do they closely resemble us anatomically and physiologically , but so too do they behave in ways which seem to convey meaning . They recoil from pain , appear to express fear of a tormentor , and appear to take pleasure in activities ; a point clear to anyone who has observed the behaviour of a pet dog on hearing the word walk . Our reasons for believing that our fellow humans are capable of experiencing feelings like ourselves can surely only be that they resemble us both in appearance and behaviour -LRB- we can not read their minds -RRB- . Thus any animal sharing our anatomical , physiological , and behavioural characteristics is surely likely to have feelings like us . If we accept as true for sake of argument , that all humans have a right not to be harmed , simply by virtue of existing as a being of moral worth , then we must ask what makes animals so different . If animals can feel what we feel , and suffer as we suffer , then to discriminate merely on the arbitrary difference of belonging to a different species , is analogous to discriminating on the basis of any other morally arbitrary characteristic , such as race or sex . If sexual and racial moral discrimination is wrong , then so too is specieism . 	Animals have a right not to be harmed
Most countries have laws restricting the ways in which animals can be treated . These would ordinarily prohibit treating animals in the manner that animal research laboratories claim is necessary for their research . Thus legal exceptions such as the 1986 Animals -LRB- Scientific Procedures -RRB- Act in the UK exist to protect these organisations , from what would otherwise be a criminal offense . This creates a clear moral tension , as one group within society is able to inflect what to any other group would be illegal suffering and cruelty toward animals . If states are serious about persuading people against cock fighting , dancing bears , and the simple maltreatment of pets and farm animals , then such goals would be enhanced by a more consistent legal position about the treatment of animals by everyone in society . 	Would send a positive social message , increasing animal welfare rights more generally in society
If the government decides to promote mother tongue education for large immigrant groups it will be enhancing mutual understanding between its own population and another nation as the immigrants provide a go between . The state will send a positive message towards the large immigrant groups by allowing them to study in their first language . It will acknowledge the importance of such groups in the national society by providing this additional opportunity . The importance of cooperation between immigrant groups and the state is often recognized , for example in combating extremism , this kind of measure encourages such cooperation as it brings with it the good will of the immigrant community . On the other hand , promoting diversity will promote understanding between countries . A favorable treatment towards the large immigrant groups will be seen positively by the country the immigrants come from . Having migrants creates a link between the two countries . This may produce clear advantages for both parties , in the form of collaboration , diplomacy and trade . The effect of migrants on trade is often ignored but studies have shown that in the case of Spain from 1995-2008 exports are boosted by having immigrant communities ; doubling the number of immigrants from a certain country in a province leads to an increase of the export values from the destination province to the country of the immigrants origin by around 10 % . The reason was because new exporting firms are created immigrants know the conditions in their own country so can access that market , something that would be impossible without a native understanding of the language . Peri , Giovanni , and Requena-Silvente , Francisco , Do immigrants create exports ? Evidence from Spain , , 26 January 2010 , 	This policy would benefit the state and provide trade
Being able to learn and teach in our own language will preserve the culture of large immigrant groups as part of another state , this is both good for that community and for the nation . For the community and the individual speaking and learning their own language will give immigrants a sense of belonging . They are part of a community that they know and understand because it speaks the same language even before they come to know the rest of the country . This provides security , belonging , and close contact with relatives . For the community it means keeping their own customs and identity alive , in a few cases this may actually be contributing to conserving a language . For the country as a whole this does not represent a threat as there can be many different levels of identity that all intermix . Instead it provides an opportunity ; it diversifies the country . It gains the benefit of a different perspective on problems and new ideas as people who speak different languages think about things in different ways so it is useful for innovation to have many different communities brought up in different languages interacting . It also gains from having another culture add diversity to its own ; there are new festivals , concerts , art , and perhaps most commonly encountered a greater diversity of cuisines to be sampled through restaurants . Bordoditsky , Lera , Lost in Translation , , 23 July 2010 , 	Conserving languages and immigrant community cultures
Because parents that are immigrants teach their kids only the mother tongue , at the age in which they should go to school they barely know the local language . Their parents sometimes dont know the language of the country that they live in and other times they choose not to use it at home . Therefore , at the age when children have to go to school , they have little or no interaction with the language of the country they live in . In the United States , 72 % of immigrant families speak a language other than English at home and 26 % live in households where no one has a strong command of the English language . This simply hands over the problem of language to the school damaging education across all subjects . This is because the children will not be able to communicate with other kids in school or understand what the teacher is saying . Because of the exclusion that the immigrants feel when going to school and the fact that they are not able to understand much of what is taught , they choose to leave school early . 70 % of Turkish children in Germany have no General Certificate of Secondary Education ; as they leave before completing secondary school . By far the most sensible way to solve this problem is to send these children to a school where they do understand the language in which they are being taught . Shields , Margie K. , and Behrman , Richard E. , Challenges Faced by Children of Immigrants , , Vol .14 , No . 2 , Summer 2004 , Greenfield , Daniel , 80 % of Turkish Muslim Settlers in Germany Live off Welfare , , 31 March 2013 , 	Educating in their mother tongue is the best option for childrens education
The inclusion of the words under God in the Pledge of Allegiance is representative of religions involvement with the state . The words under God in the pledge of allegiance were clearly government sanctioned as the words were added by congress with the sanction of President Eisenhower . -LRB- 83rd United States Congress 2nd Session -RRB- When they did this congress , the state , was clearly promoting religion . The proposition believes that religion has no place in politics and so these two words should be removed . 	Separation of state and religion
The inclusion of the words under God in the Pledge of Allegiance implies that there is no place for atheism in American patriotism and that non-believers have nothing to give to their country . The removal of these words would create a more inclusive America that accepts that everyone , including all non-Christians and non-believers , have something to give to their country . -LRB- Buckner 2002 -RRB- 	Prevents the marginalisation of non-believers
The First Amendment is that the state shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion , or prohibiting the free exercise thereof . -LRB- Archives.gov -RRB- This prohibits favouring one religion over another . -LRB- Cornell University Law School , 2010 -RRB- The use of the words under God in this way , particularly regarding Americas history as a Christian state , clearly shows favour towards Christianity , or at its most expansive monotheistic religions , over alternative religions or no religion , even without explicitly mentioning Christianity . -LRB- Newdow 2003 -RRB- 	: Upholding of the First Amendment
Even if the proposition accepts , which it does not , that the words under God do not show preference towards Christianity , it is undeniable that it is widely understood that these words are a reference to Christianity . This associates national pride with Christianity and presents other religions as inherently un-American . The proposition believes that this is divisive and promotes religious intolerance and that , therefore , this legislation would help relieve the tolerance and divisions caused by the current Pledge of Allegiance . 	Removing under god would promote religious tolerance
Extraordinary rendition permits the transferring of suspected enemy combatants from one place to another without the bureaucratic and legal difficulties of establishing their legal position . Contemporary warfare , most notably suspected terrorists in the war on terror , are not covered by the dictates of international humanitarian law , requiring extraordinary rendition to move the suspects from battlefields to places of interrogation and then back to their countries of residence . As Condoleezza Rice argued In some situations a terrorist suspect can be extradited according to traditional judicial procedures . But there have long been many other cases where , for some reason , the local government can not detain or prosecute a suspect , and traditional extradition is not a good option . Without extraordinary rendition , the process or extradition would take much longer and suspects cases would remain tied up in military tribunals or civilian courts for indefinite amounts of time , sometimes rendition is the only practical option . 	Extraordinary rendition is necessary in contemporary warfare as a solution to the legal ambiguity of enemy combatants
States can not expect to be held responsible for the actions of their fellow states where suspects are rendered to . The C.I.A . has a policy in practice where it obtains diplomatic assurance that torture will not be used . Under customary international law , the U.S.A. is obliged to act in good faith . So , when America is given diplomatic assurance by another government , it would be a diplomatic blunder and ill-advised not to trust that guarantee . Also , imagine the consequence if it were one day proved that the C.I.A . rendered a person , knowing they would be tortured : not only would the persons involved lose their jobs , but also the reputation of the C.I.A . would be severely damaged . Thats why the C.I.A . has an incentive to make sure that these assurances are believable and do their due diligence . If thereafter torture occurs , the state responsible for rendering the suspect is understandably innocent of any blame . 	States can only trust the diplomatic assurance they receive that torture wont be used
Certain states have made reservations to the general treaties which permit rendition under specific circumstances . For example , when ratifying the Convention Against Torture -LRB- CAT -RRB- in 1994 , the U.S.A. made the reservation that it can render persons to countries when they believe that it is more likely than not that a person wont be tortured so , under the U.S. interpretation of CAT , the U.S.A. can render persons to countries that practice torture , as long as the U.S.A has reason to believe that it will not torture in this specific case . This is a reasonable , and legal , means to circumvent the convention . 	Extraordinary rendition is acceptable provided torture is not solicited
Extraordinary renditions save lives . It is used to bring people who are known or believed to be terrorists , to justice . These suspects are often stateless or hide in places where ordinary processes of law do not work extraordinary rendition is then the only possible way of tracking them down , getting the necessary information from them , and bringing them to justice . They carry information which could save thousands of lives the U.S.A. would be foolish not to try and get that out of them . An example of this is Ramzi Youssef , who masterminded the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center and plotted to blow up airlines over the Pacific Ocean . After a rendition to the U.S.A. , he was convicted and now serves a life-sentence . Without rendition , who knows how many people he would have killed or how long he would have escaped the justice that he deserved . 	States have the right to use extraordinary rendition in order to saves the lives of its citizens
Every nation should be allowed to honor its war dead how it wishes . Wars are horrifying times and atrocities are almost always committed by all sides . Japans actions in its wars , particularly the Second World War were particularly brutal but this should not mean that Japans leaders should be banned from paying their respects to their ancestors who died fighting for their country . Most nations do this in one way or another . The difference is that Yasukuni has those who were convicted criminals enshrined but others also honor those who have committed acts that might be considered criminal . Perhaps the most extreme example is the Mausoleum of Mao Zedong right at the heart of Beijing where there are still big celebrations to mark his birthday unlike Shintoism in Japan Maoism is still very much part of the ideology of the state . Analects , Maos birthday Party time , , 7 June 2013 , 	Every nation should be allowed to respect its war dead
The vast majority of members of the government when visiting Yasukuni do so only in a private capacity and not as representatives of the government . As private individuals in their own lives anyone should be allowed to visits any such sites they wish . Minister Keiji Furuya argues Paying homage to the war dead is a purely domestic matter and its not for other countries to criticize us or intervene in these matters and Prime Minister Abe agrees that it should not be a diplomatic issue As for when I might go to Yasukuni Shrine , or whether I will go or not , I will not say as this should not become a political or diplomatic issue . That there has been controversy and criticism even when it clearly is a domestic private matter , such as former Republic of China -LRB- Taiwan -RRB- President Lee Teng-hui visiting the grave of his elder brother in 2007 shows that critics , in this case the Peoples Republic of China , are simply interested in finding an opportunity to attack the Japanese government . Slodkowski , Antoni , Cabinet ministers visit Yasukuni Shrine ; Abe sends offering , , 15 August 2013 , Fujioka , Chisa , Taiwans Lee visits Tokyos Yasukuni war shrine , , 7 June 2007 , 	Is a domestic matter for each individual
Even states without nuclear waste programs tend to generate radioactive waste . For example , research and medicine both use nuclear material and nuclear technology . Technologies such as Medical imaging equipment are dependent and the use of radioactive elements . This means that all states produce levels of nuclear waste that need to be dealt with . Moreover , many non-nuclear states are accelerating their programmes of research and investment into nuclear technologies . With the exception of Germany , there is an increasing consensus among developed nations that nuclear power is the only viable method of meeting rising domestic demand for energy in the absence of reliable and efficient renewable forms of power generation . The alternatives to putting nuclear waste in underground storage tend to be based around the reuse of nuclear waste in nuclear power stations . Whilst this is viable in some areas , in countries which lack the technology to be able to do this and in countries which dont need to rely on nuclear power , this option becomes irrelevant . Further , even this process results in the creation of some nuclear waste , so in countries with the technology to implement such a solution , the disposal of the remaining nuclear waste is still an issue . As such , underground nuclear storage is a necessary method that should be used to dispose of nuclear waste . 1 1 . The EUs deep underground storage plan . 03/11/2010 . 	Storing nuclear waste underground is necessary - there are no better option available
Underground nuclear waste storage means that nuclear waste is stored at least 300m underground . The harm of a leak 300m underground is significantly limited , if the area has been chosen correctly then there should be no water sources nearby to contaminate . If this is the case , then a leaks harm would be limited to the layers of sediment nearby which would be unaffected by radiation . By comparison a leak outside might lead to animals nearby suffering from contamination . Further nuclear waste might reach water sources should there be a leak above ground , if it is raining heavily when the leak happens for example . Further , the other options available , such as above ground storage present a potentially greater danger , should something go wrong . This is because it is much easier for nuclear waste to leak radiation into the air . This is problematic because even a hint of radiation may well cause people to panic owing to the damaging and heavily publicised consequences of previous nuclear safety crises . As such , underground storage is safer both directly and indirectly .1 As well as this , underground storage also prevents nuclear waste or nuclear radiation from reaching other states and as such , results in greater safety across borders .2 Further , storing all nuclear waste underground means that countries can concentrate their research and training efforts on responding to subterranean containment failures . Focus and specialisation of this type is much more likely to avert a serious release of nuclear material from an underground facility than the broad and general approach that will be fostered by diverse and distinct above-ground storage solutions . 	Underground nuclear storage is safer than any available alternative
We have good reasons to value keeping people alive : it allows people the opportunity to enjoy their time on Earth and effect changes to everyones benefit , even if that simply means being around for our loved ones . Most people would even go so far as to say that , by virtue of being conscious creatures , human beings deserve to live . That is to say , they have a right not to suffer an untimely death . This is the reason that we normally abhor killing : it cuts short human life . However , in this thought experiment , the inescapable reality is that someones right to life will be violated . Either the one or the five will die , and all the horrible results attached to the cessation of a human life will inevitably befall one of the groups . In light of this fact , our moral obligation is to reduce the number of people whose right to life is violated and maximize the number for whom that right is actualized . One ought to commit the act that results in the fewest deaths , and that is to kill the one and save the five . 	The human right to life compels us to save as many as possible
Every time a life is extinguished , some amount of present and future good vanishes from the world . All the good things that that person would have experienced joy , accomplishment , delight will no longer occur . Similarly , all the beneficially effects they will have one other people , from productively working to loving their family , will also not occur . True , people also experience unhappy times , and they sometimes negatively affect others , but in all but an exceptionally small number of cases , the net contribution of a human life to total utility is positive -LRB- indeed , if it werent , we probably wouldnt consider death to be bad -RRB- . Even though there will be some fluctuations in how much each life contributes to total utility a happy doctor probably adds more utility than a miserable meter maid it is overwhelmingly likely that saving the five lives will result in a situation of greater utility than preserving the life of the one . 	A utilitarian approach will result in a decision that saves the largest number of lives possible .
While Rawls did oppose utilitarianism , he generated a hypothetical scenario that is useful , even to the utilitarian , for evaluating moral theories . Imagine that all human beings were placed in a scenario where they knew nothing about their station in the world , and know only the basic laws of reasoning and human nature . They do not know what their level of intelligence , personality traits , gender , socioeconomic status , race or religion will be , nor even when or where they will be born ; they are behind the veil of ignorance . Every single person who will ever exist is placed in this situation at the beginning of the universe . Next , these human beings are told they will decide which rules will govern human conduct when they come to inhabit the world . In such a situation , all rational human beings would ensure that they are treated fairly no matter who they are ; they will have perfect sympathy for every human being ever , because they could end up being that person . Whatever rules they come up with in this situation are the rules that are ethically correct , because these rules will never treat anyone unfairly -LRB- as that would be an irrational move -RRB- . So how would people in this hypothetical treat the decision whether to kill one to save five ? Rational actors would agree on the rule to kill the one and save the five . After all , any given person is five times as likely to end up as a member of the five rather than as the one . Thus , behind the veil of ignorance , the rational human being would proudly prescribe Save the five and kill the one . 	Give a choice , all rational individuals would prefer to live in a world in which behaviour prefered the choice to sacrifice one to save many
The status quo denies the English their own distinctive political identity . The devolution settlement acknowledges that the political preferences and cultural identities of the Scottish , Welsh and English peoples are sufficiently different to warrant the creation of separate Scottish and Welsh legislatures . If political preferences were the same between these nations , there would be no problem with having one central Parliament . Proponents of devolution must , therefore , believe that such differences exist . However , having done the Scottish and Welsh the service of allowing them to elect representatives of their political preferences , the UK denies this right to the English , forcing them to continue to be subject to the political preferences of the Scottish and Welsh , who can vote in Westminster elections . This process is clearly unfair , and generates an inequality within the UK . This is exemplified by the fact that in the 2005 General Elections , a plurality of English votes were cast in favour of the Conservative Party , -LRB- 35.7 % compared to labour 's 35.4 % -RRB- but a Labour Government was elected , partly on the back of the heavily Labour-dominated Scottish and Welsh votes . , accessed 28 August 2011 	An English Parliament would Positively Affect English Cultural and Political Identities .
It is problematic that England , Scotland and Wales elect politicians to the same legislature with differing mandates . A mandate is a commission given to a government and its policies or an elected representative and his policies through an electoral victory . The Westminster Parliament can only affect the Scottish and Welsh through foreign policy , therefore , Scottish and Welsh MPs are elected by their constituents with a mandate to enact policy in areas of foreign policy . Meanwhile , English politicians have a mandate to enact both foreign and domestic policy , since their electorates vote them in to carry out these functions . This means that one set of MPs are not acting under an electoral mandate when they vote in Parliament and , consequently , their decisions lack the legitimacy of English MPs . Separating the functions of foreign and domestic policy into two separate parliaments would make the mandates of elected politicians clear , and enable all MPs to vote with a consistent level of legitimacy . , accessed 27th June 2011 	An English Parliament would solve the conflict between differing mandates .
An English Parliament is required to overcome a democratic deficit . In the status quo , Scottish and Welsh MPs get to vote on issues that do not affect their constituents , but may be pivotal in getting through legislation that affects the English . This in fact happened with the vote on university top-up fees : top-up fees were implemented in England despite a majority of English MPs voting against introducing them . They were passed only because Scottish MPs voted with the government , even though the Scottish Parliament had already voted not to introduce them for Scottish universities . Here we have a clear example of the representatives of English citizens voting down a proposal , but the policy being implemented on the English -LRB- against their will -RRB- because of the votes of outsiders . This totally undermines the democratic principle of self-rule and according to Paul Kingsworth these policies are , therefore , flawed . The policies were not , in many cases , representative of the public 's wishes in the geographical area they were to be implemented . Democracy exists so that a population can decide for itself what laws it lives under the absence of an English Parliament denies the English this right to decide for themselves , because sometimes the Scots and Welsh decide for them . accessed 28 August 2011 accessed 27 June 2011 . 	Without devolution the English are underrepresented .
There is an issue with accountability under the status quo . Around 20 % of the MPs elected to Parliament are elected from constituencies outside of England , and these MPs all get to vote on issues which affect only England . Most MPs can be held to account for their decisions by their local constituents , who can lobby their MPs by writing to them , attending local surgeries -LRB- meetings with the MPs -RRB- or by switching their vote at the next election . Such scrutiny and accountability takes place under the assumption that when the MP votes , she does so in the interests of her constituents , and they may protest if she does not vote in their interests . However , for the 20 % of Parliament whose constituents are totally unaffected by the outcome of the vote , no accountability can be expected . No Scottish or Welsh constituents will write to their local MP , or change the way they vote , based on their MP 's voting record on matters which can not affect them . As such , a fifth of MPs stay in their jobs without fear of public scrutiny , and knowing that the likelihood of their being re-elected is divorced from their voting record in Parliament . An English Parliament would solve this problem , by creating a situation in which all politicians vote only on those issues that may affect their constituents . Politicians , such as Malcolm Rifkind , have suggested that an English Parliament , or in this case Grand Committee , would increase the accountability of MPs thus making the system much fairer . , accessed 27th June 2011 	An English Parliament would Increase MPs Accountability .
Members of groups that find themselves the targets of hate speech will be less likely to attend universities where they feel targeted . As a result , those campuses will become less diverse which will decrease the most effective deterrent of hateful ideas : understanding through interaction . Less Muslim , gay , Jewish , etc . students on campus is exactly what those promoting hatred are trying to achieve . Less students of the targeted group makes them easier to target because there are less people speaking out against the hate speech . A downward spiral is created that , if not checked , can drastically reduce campus diversity which is a massive harm to social integration and social harmony . Speech codes or other censorship sends a signal to minorities that they are welcome in the university . 	Allowing Hate Speech Discourages diversity
A great deal of modern journalism has become a fairly disreputable commentary on whichever celebrity non-event happens to be in vogue at the moment . Quite rightly nobody would really miss this if it vanished tomorrow . However , journalism at its best remains one of the strongest defenses against tyranny , corruption and hypocrisy in public life that there is . It is only through the determination , skill and knowledge of the best journalists that other sectors of society , not just the political class , are held to account in the full view of the public . For example the Guardian helped expose the phone hacking scandal in the British press . If it were left to directors of big business and political insiders to regulate themselves then most corruption would be dealt with behind closed doors , if it were dealt with at all . 	Journalism is a vital part of a healthy , democratic society
A healthy print media guarantees a level of factual accuracy in a way that the internet simply can not . The press also - when it works at its best - inculcates skills of research and quality writing that are sadly lacking from many major websites . If nothing else the media is a major industry , when the automobile or other industries face threats to their survival from technological change the government bails them out to give them time to adapt , such as the United States did with its $ 17.4 billion bailout of General Motors and Chrysler . Here is an industry that is being hurt for a number of reason but delivers a proven good not available from another source notably that of its primary rival . Government intervention should be the default position . 	An established press fulfills a role that can not be filled by other media such as the internet
The State already invests large amounts of money into the media , both directly and indirectly . Firstly the state directly funds organisations like PBS and indirectly funds the likes of the BBC . In addition all governments are major media buyers in their own right , responsible for huge amounts of advertising and this applies to local government more than the national government . In addition there are softer subsidies such as government funding for journalism courses at universities . All an additional bailout provides is a furtherance of an existing activity . The fact that these relationships and subsidies exist demonstrates that the state acknowledges the value of the media . The fact that the people tolerate it suggests that they do too . 	The State already subsidizes the press in many ways and a bailout would simply be an extension of what already happens
ASBOs address the symptom , not the condition . Their powers are wide and undefined too wide , meaning that Judges and magistrates can do pretty much whatever they like . Certainly there are problems in the way people conduct themselves but if such behaviour isnt criminal , then its up to families and communities to fix it . The ASBO is the latest example of excessive state interference in the lives of citizens . Either conduct is criminal , or it is not . The law of nuisance exists . Restraining orders exist . ASBOs arent intended to deal with that kind of problem : theyre the tool of the state controlling behaviour . Just because a problem exists , doesnt mean its the job of the state to try and fix it . The powers granted to the state in its efforts are disproportionate to the problems concerned . Indeed , the current trend is against such interference both as shown by the potential replacement of ASBOs and by court decisions such as one that people should not be punished for hurling obscenities . 	ASBOs do not address the real problem
Newspapers are full of examples of absurd ASBOs . They make an ass of the law and show that the nanny state is overreaching . People trying to kill themselves really arent going to be put off by the prospect of breaching their ASBO . Other examples include a prostitute who was prohibited from carrying condoms in an area that included her drug clinic , a prohibition on mobile soup vans that fed the homeless and a deaf girl who was banned from spitting in public . 	There is no respect among the population for ASBOS
A youth recently appeared in Court in Manchester for breach of his ASBO . The Order had been made in the youth 's absence without his being able to give his side of the story -LRB- one of the main concerns about ASBOs and one that can lead to misuse -RRB- . The day after the Order was made someone came to his house to `` serve '' it on him . This consisted of his being handed a copy of what was a fairly bulky document running to several dozen pages with no attempt to explain it or even to ascertain if he was literate enough to read it . The Order included an restriction preventing him entering a particular estate nearby and another preventing him from associating with certain others . Unfortunately , he went out before reading the Order and beached it twice that day . The next day he went out again and breached it three times by mistake as he had not read the part covering the particular restriction . He now faces possibly custody although he has never been convicted of a criminal offence . The issuing of ASBOs is inconsistent and almost amounts to a geographical lottery . People can be jailed for breaching an ASBO where the original offence was itself non-imprisonable i.e . . A civil procedure is being used to create and expand criminal sanctions . ASBOs have also been imposed on people with mental health problems where treatment would have been more appropriate . 	ASBOS breach basic principles of justice
Obesity causes huge medical costs - in the USA alone , around 150 billion dollars -LSB- 6 -RSB- . This is because obesity is linked to Type 2 Diabetes , cancer , heart problems , strokes , asthma and other medical problems . Many of these diseases need lifelong treatment following expensive diagnosis , and often emergency treatment . This not only has human effects , but causes problems for the economy due to being less productive at work and taking lots of medical leave . Due to obesitys costs -LRB- financial and otherwise -RRB- to society , it cant be considered as something that only affects individuals any more -LSB- 7 -RSB- . 	Being fat causes problems for everyone
Taxes that try to change peoples behaviour on things that are not liked have been used since the 16 century , and are commonly applied to alcohol , smoking and gambling . In the US , when cigarette prices went up 4 % , use dropped by 10 % -LSB- 11 -RSB- . As this worked with tobacco , which creates similar health problems to obesity , this tried and tested strategy can work . Research has shown that when the price of unhealthy food goes up , people eat less of it -LSB- 12 -RSB- . A fat tax would make people healthier . 	Other taxes try to change behaviour
Celebrity involvement in the political process may increase the extent to which politicians need to court media attention in order to promote their policies . Many people get their political information from soft-news outlets , i.e . entertainment channels and magazines that often focus on celebrity gossip . Shows such as get millions of viewers many of whom dont get news through other mediums and although soft news is the preferred format for a minority -LRB- 10.2 % -RRB- for a great many more it is in their top three . The involvement of celebrities in the political sphere increases the power of soft-news over the political process : due to the wide reach of soft-news it is not possible to counter its effects using narrow-reach opinion pieces and policy analysis . Rather , politicians are forced either to package their ideas in a way acceptable to these magazines and talk shows -LRB- i.e . reduce the analysis ; dumb down -RRB- , for example Obama in 2009 became the first sitting president to appear on a late night comedy show ; , or to counter attack by seeking celebrity endorsement of their own . This makes political debate increasingly shallow , and voters decisions correspondingly less well-informed . The harmful impacts upon our democratic process are two-fold : first , voters being less informed means they are less likely to truly be voting in a way that is aligned with their best interests or political beliefs ; second , the debate is skewed towards ideas that can be conveyed in short sound-bites and away from ideas that require more complicated discussion . Drezner , Daniel W. , Foreign Policy Goes Glam , , Nov. / Dec. 2007 , Prior , Markus , Any Good News in Soft News ? The Impact of Soft News Preferences on Political Knowledge , , Vol . 20 , 2003 , pp.149-171 , p. 151 Baum , Matthew A. , and Jamison , Angela , Soft News and the four Oprah effects , November 2011 , 	Personality politics is harmful to the democratic process
Politicians want endorsements because they know it will bring votes ; it is estimated that Oprahs endorsement of Obama in the Democratic Primary of 2008 brought an additional 1 million votes to Obama . It is unjust for celebs to use their influence in this way . Celebrities have an ability to influence the political sphere that bears no necessary relationship with their knowledge of the subjects concerned , or qualifications otherwise to do so . Consequently , they represent an unelected , unaccountable pressure on the democratic system : they have been given power and influence , with no mechanism of checking that power , or way to prevent them from misleading the public -LRB- unlike , for example , political journalists , news channels and other sources of political information -RRB- . This is principally unjust : the optimum democratic system is the one that holds the closest to the principle of one person , one vote , and attempts to ensure that those votes are as informed as possible . Celebrity involvement in politics is a hindrance to that , effectively handing the famous more votes than is their due . Garthwaite , Craig , and Moore , Timothy J. , Can Celebrity Endorsements Affect Political Outcomes ? Evidence from the 2008 US Democratic Presidential Primary , , 2012 , 	This is an unjust use of unelected power
Celebrity endorsement distracts those who normally provide information to voters . Newspapers , blogs and other online media all have limited space , and , because celebrities sell , will use that space showing who is supporting whom , rather than covering debate about a politicians policies and ideas . Though the presence of celebrities may actually give the masses more avenue to relate to electoral processes , the fact still stands that in status quo people are more interested in the activities of their favorite celebrities which will thus blot out the candidates themselves . When voters see celebrity endorsements they are no longer thinking about how these future politicians can make an impact on their lives . In some cases the celebrity may help show the platform of policies the candidate is standing on but most of the time they are simply taking airtime from more in depth analysis . What is worse when wooing celebrities becomes important for politicians the politicians themselves have less time to formulate and articulate their policies . This is detrimental to the democratic process . People having less information than they would otherwise impairs their ability to make an informed choice about how they would like to vote . A prohibition on celebrity interference in political debate would remove this obscuring effect . All of the above adds to the depoliticisation of politics . If the celebrity endorsement continues to thrive , younger generations will disengage with the important political issues at hand . Instead of learning about the fundamental issues surrounding their country , they will be exposed to party tactics that are of no use to their political development . 	People will have less information about politicians manifestos and ideas .
Parents who take their children out of school , or choose to home-school due to apprehensions over the quality of state education , should be entitled to do so provided the child is better off as a result . To ensure they are not neglected , parents hoping to home-school must both register the fact they are home-schooling their child and submit to regular , state inspections of the child 's progress . If the child is deemed to be falling behind his age group , the parent may be forced to return the child to a school . The parent should be given standards of teaching that they must adhere to before the inspections occur , and the standards should be sufficiently flexible to reflect children learn at different speeds and that not all children 's development reflects fairly on their teacher . 	Parents should be permitted to home-school their children provided they register the fact and submit to inspections
Home schooling allows children to learn in an environment that has the needs of one or a very few number of students as the focus of the educative process . Parents are willing to invest in their children and can provide targeted provision that prioritises the learning needs of those individuals . Therefore , specific textbooks that are tailored to the child 's mode of learning can be purchased . State schools , in contrast , are often very ill-equipped and under-funded , leading to standardized text books and teaching methods . The home also lacks the many distractions and disadvantages of schools : peer pressure , social stigma attached to achievement , bullying , show-offs and general rowdiness . ` Virtues in to Vices ' in The Journal Of Home Education 	The home is an ideal learning environment .
Classroom-based education must , by necessity , cater for the needs of the group as a whole which leaves those the very bright unchallenged and those with special needs falling behind and unsupported . The state often takes years to recognise the needs of students and they lose years of education in the process . In addition , even if those needs are identified ` special schools ' are underfunded and stigmatised . For many students with identifiable problems that affects their capacity to learn within mainstream schooling but is not severe enough to merit a place within the special needs sector , homeschooling can benefit such students by shaping the learning environment to cater for their needs by being flexible to adapt . 	Home schooling is often the best option for catering for the needs of exceptional or disabled students .
Homeschooling families do not operate in isolation . There are extensive support networks -LRB- particularly in the USA the nation with the largest proportion of the population homeschooling -RRB- that exist to provide companionship , promote sports events and social functions . In addition , standard social provisions for children in civic society scout movements , sports club are open to homeschoolers . Homeschooling is not a removal from society but just from state schools . Homeschooled children often engage with their local community to a greater extent than their schooled peers . Home Schooling : From the Extreme to the Mainstream Patrick Basham , Public Policy Sources 	Home schooling involves good community involvement and social interaction .
Family bonding is a massively important element of a child 's development and is prioritised by home schooling . The value of the family is constantly undermined in modern society ; positive parental role models are found less and less frequently . If a parent is judged by a state vetting process to be good enough it is enormously beneficial for society as a whole to approve is an environment that cements both a positive role model and family bonding . ` The Role of Interpretation Processes and Parental Discussion in the Media 's Effects on Adolescents ' Use of Alcohol ' Erica Weintraub Austen , Bruce E. Pinkelton , Yuki Fujioka , Paediatrics , -LRB- 2000 -RRB- 	Parents can shape moral instruction .
The state constantly fails those with greatest faith needs in schools . There are numerous examples of failure of accommodation : ignorant provision for prayer times , banning of religious dress , unwitting subjection of students to religious festivals that are manifestly unsuitable . If parents want to avoid such perils altogether , and teach their child within an environment that caters for their religious need then that is and should be their right . ` Rise in racism in the playground ' BBC News -LRB- 2007 -RRB- 	Homeschooling allows for the accommodation of faith practices .
Secrecy in relation to the leaders health shows a distrust or distain of the electorate . Not being open about health issues almost invariably means that the administration is lying to those who elected them , those who they are accountable to . A couple of days before John Atta Mills died Nii Lantey Vanderpuye a candidate for Mills party stated He -LSB- Mills -RSB- is stronger and healthier than any presidential candidate , information that in retrospect was clearly untrue . Takyi-Boadu , Charles , Confusion Hits Mills , , 21 July 2012 , 	The head of state/government must be accountable to the people
The health of the leader of the state is an issue that the people and the media inevitably want to know about . There will always be a lot of interest in it . Occasionally this can be played by the administration as with Kissinger saying he was ill and using time to fly to Beijing to arrange for Nixons visit without press attention . But most of the time keeping things from the press is purely negative ; it drives rumors . This was the case of John Atta Mills , people were not allowed to know about his health . The presidential staff and communication members constantly lied about his health but there were two reports that he had died . Mills spent time in a US hospital , on returning to Ghana , he was made to jog around the airport to show the media that he was healthy . Committee for Social Advocacy , ` Who and what killed President John Evans Atta Mills ? ' , , 13 August 2012 , 	The people are interested in the health of their leader
The health and fitness of a leader is a vital issue when choosing a leader ; the electorate deserves to know if they are likely to serve out their term . When health conditions are hidden from the people they may mistakenly elect a leader who is unable to serve a full term or is at times not in control of the country . There would be little point in voting for a leader who will often not truely be in charge of the country , if voters are told it becomes their choice whether this is a problem . Transparency in terms of clear , accurate and up-to-date information is necessary for the electorate to judgethe fitness of a leaderwhich is a necessary precondition for election . In a democracy a leader needs to be accountable , he can only be accountable if the elctorate knows such vital information . 	Transparency allows citizens to choose for a healthy leader as to ensure proper functioning
A person is most likely to survive when they have an accident , a heart attack , or some other condition if they get prompt treatment and doctors are aware of any underlying conditions . Mills may well have lived , or lived longer if there had been more transparency about his death . There had been no prior warning that the president might be rushed to hospital despite the doctors having been called in the previous day . For the same reason his outriders were not available leading to indecision over whether to send off the ambulance . And finally he was initially turned away from the emergency ward because they did not know it was the President they were being asked to treat . Transparency would allow procedures to be in place and advance notice given possibly gaining a few minutes and enabling survival . Daily Guide , How Mills died : Sister tells it all , , 31 August 2012 , 	A lack of transparency can endanger the leader
When fighting terrorists the state either needs to answer some of the terrorists demands or fight back . When the state fights back the by the terrorists response is almost always more bloodshed using more and more extreme methods for example the first intifada was fought using sticks and stones , but when this , and the peace process that followed it failed , or rather did not show the results that was hoped for , the second was a major step up to suicide bombing . This is because when the terrorists fail they are unlikely to pack up ; instead they will try to find a bigger lever to course the state into making the move they want . In this case Arafat hoped a round of violence would bring about concessions . The best way to prevent this cycle of violence is to negotiate , even if this is mostly to buy time . Even when there is no cease fire there will be no reason for the terrorists to escalate if their demands are being taken seriously . Pressman , Jeremy , The Second Intifada : Background and Causes of the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict , , Vol . CCIII , No . 2 , Fall 2003 , 	No negotiation encourages the hunt for a bigger lever
UN Secretary General Kofi Annan stated in 2003 terrorism will only be defeated if we act to solve the political disputes and long-standing conflicts which generate support for it . If we do not , we shall find ourselves acting as a recruiting sergeant for the very terrorists we seek to suppress . Terrorist campaigns do n't just come out of nowhere -LRB- with the exception of some single individual acts -RRB- , there is a grievance behind the acts . The terrorist is trying to have this grievance dealt with and believes the best way to this end is through violence . It is clear that the easiest way to end the conflict is simply to resolve the grievance . Even when there are no negotiations the state will usually attempt to resolve some of these grievances , however doing so unilaterally will simply show that the terrorist 's violence is working without getting any guarantees of an end to the violence in return . Negotiation therefore benefits both sides . It is notable that 43 % of terrorist groups that have ended since 1968 have done so as a result of negotiations compared to only 7 % being defeated militarily . Annan , Kofi , Ability to reason vital in fighting terrorism , Secretary-General tells conference , , SG/SM/8885 , 22 September 2003 , Jones , Seth G. , and Libicki , Martin C. , , RAND , 2008 , p.xiii , xiv 	Negotiation is the only way to solve the underlying problem
Just as negotiations strengthen the moderates they isolate those who are most radical and interested in a violent solution . This isolation is key to actually winning a fight against groups using terrorist methods because terrorists are almost always hiding within the community . The only way to prevent these acts is therefore to encourage their community to persuade the terrorists to reject violence , or if they are not willing to change to aid the state . The need for help from the community is recognised in almost all conflicts against terrorist groups and insurgencies . The state succeeds when it gets the moderates on board , this is shown by the conflict in Iraq where the United States turned the tide against al Qaeda in the Al-Anbar Awakening . This victory was only made possible through the engagement and cooperation with local leaders who wanted an end to violence so were willing to talk to , and join with the US military if the result was likely to be security . Smith , Niel , and MacFarland , Sean , Anbar Awakens : The Tipping Point , , March-April 2008 , pp.41-52 , p. 48 	Negotiation isolates those who are only interested in violence
Video games exist as an interactive medium . The player has control over their character and many of their characters actions whereas in a book or movie , the audience does not . This means that the player can become invested emotionally in characters to a greater extent because of the autonomy afforded to each character . Given that this is true it becomes more difficult to ensure dissociation between the real world and the game world with which the player interacts . With the growing drive towards realism of videogame graphics , game environments are able to look incredibly similar to real life , further blurring the distinction . If this is the case , then a person who visits violence upon another person within a game universe feels the same emotions as someone who does so within real life , and therefore may be desensitised to real-life violence . Whilst game producers would claim that is not their aim and that their games do not cause this desensitisation , many have been actively pursuing technologies that allow for greater immersion within their game-worlds . If this is the case then acts of violence may fail to register the same level of shock or revulsion in a person than they usually do . Given that this is true , people who play video games become more able to harm others or less likely to intervene to prevent harm . In terms of actual evidence , there is very little to back up this analysis . Most studies supporting the concept have been debunked by others . 	Violent Video Games cause Violent Behaviour
Video games of a violent nature tend to fail to offer many solutions to a problem . Most military shooters have no form of negotiation with enemies ; players are asked to simply kill as many nameless terrorists as possible . Given this , social interaction problems can be caused because people are presented with problems and then told that they must be solved with violence instead of other methods . In other words , physical violence is portrayed as the first-choice -LRB- and often only-choice -RRB- solution to a conflict . This lack of portrayal of alternate solutions can stifle growth of other skills , especially amongst children and adolescents , specifically skills important to making friends and engaging in negotiation in times of conflict or pressure . Further , it encourages children to see people who oppose them as others , and thus presents them psychologically as enemies instead of as people who are simply different to the player and thus might have other grievances . This can lead to increases in aggression among players . This is especially true given the relatively simplistic portrayal of conflicts within areas such as the Middle East and Afghanistan . 	Violent Video Games Cause Social Interaction Problems
Whilst it might be agreed that violent video games in the hands of a person who is old enough to see them and be able to understand the context in which the violence is being wrought is acceptable , this may not be true of younger people who acquire games . Games with violent content are often easily acquired by players too young to purchase them . They may also gain access to them at home from older siblings . Because children do not have fully developed mental faculties yet , and may not clearly separate fantasy from reality , exposure to violent games can have a large impact upon children . This has a greater impact than children seeing films that feature realistic violence because whilst a child might get bored with films owing to the lack of interaction with the medium , this is much less likely to be the case with , for example , a military shooting game , which a child might play over and over As such , all violent video games should be banned to prevent their acquisition by young children either by accident , or owing to parental ignorance . 	Children See Violent Video Games
Nature is marked by clear design . The complexity of the human body , of ecosystems , and even of bacteria , attests to the existence of creative agency . It is impossible that such things as , for example , interdependent species could come to exist without the guidance of a designer . Likewise , certain organisms can be shown to be irreducibly complex , meaning that if one were to remove any part of it , it would lose all functionality . This refutes the gradualist argument of evolution , since there is no selective pressure on the organism to change when it is functionless . For example , the bacterial flagellum , the `` motor '' that powers bacterial cells , loses all functionality if a single component is removed . Besides design , the only explanation of its development is blind chance , which is nonsensical . Creationism serves to explain the various mysteries of biology currently absent from the evolutionary biologists ' picture of the world . The existence of complexity of the order found in the natural world is too great to envisage an origin other than complex design . 	Much of the complexity of life can not be explained by evolution , but is perfectly explained by Creationism .
Society is made up of communities with their own views on politics , religion , education , etc . . School boards should be able to set curriculum based on the desires of the public , not just on what the scientific elites command to be taught . Children deserve to hear that their beliefs and those of their community are respected in the classroom . This is why Creationism , a belief held to varying extents in many countries , should be taught in the classroom.This is particularly true in the United States , where in several states the majority of people does not accept evolution , but have instead adopted Creationism , considering the evidence for the latter to be more convincing . In a poll in 2009 a majority -LRB- 57 % -RRB- said that creationism should be taught in schools either without evolution or alongside it . The teaching of Creationism should not be taught exclusively , but should share time with other prevailing theories , particularly those of evolution and abiogenesis . Furthermore , evolution taught exclusively threatens religious belief , telling children they are no more than animals and lack the spark of grace given by God . It is important for social stability that schools are allowed to teach what communities believe to be true . 	Communities should have a say in what is taught in schools , and many communities want to teach creationism .
Creationism can be drawn as an entirely reasonable scientific hypothesis , and it forms a coherent theory of the origin and development of life that opposes the naturalist theories of abiogenesis and evolution . Abiogenesis describes the development of life from nonliving materials and evolution seeks to explain the development and diversity of life through a gradual process of mutation and natural selection , yet no one has ever demonstrated either process sufficiently in the laboratory . In the case of abiogenesis , all experiments to create an environment similar to the supposed prebiotic soup whence life first sprang have resulted in no new life forming . In the case of evolution , evolutionists consistently fail to show the development of new kinds oforganisms . While there is no doubt that some change occurs within species , such as the breeding of wolves into dogs , it appears to happen only within certain limited bounds . Certainly no experiment or study has shown evolution to be capable of explaining such huge diversity in the world of living things . Creationism , on the other hand , offers the explanation that abiogenesis and evolution can not . The diversity of life and its origin are rationally explicable as the product of intelligent agency . This is not a statement of religious belief , but of scientific observation . Describing the nature of the designer , however , is another question all together , one that need not be answered in order to accept that there is such a designer . 	Creationism is as valid a scientific theory as those of evolution and abiogenesis , and should therefore be given equal time in the classroom .
The opinion of the scientific community with regard to facts and theories has a great propensity to change with time . Once scientists adamantly maintained that the Earth was flat . For centuries it also maintained that there were two kinds of blood flowing through the human body . Science is not infallible and the prevailing theory is no more than the opinion currently in vogue among scholars . In light of new evidence , theories can change over time , giving way to betterexplanations . For this reason , the evolutionists ' dogmatic adherence to their position in spite of contrary evidence provided by Creationists is hard to understand . However , it becomes clear why the scientific establishment takes such a confrontational position toward Creationism when one considers that many eminent scientists and researchers have built their careers within the paradigm of evolution , and their research often depends wholly on its acceptance . These scientists would lose their exalted position in the light of a paradigm-shift in scientific understanding away from evolution . It is for this reason that scientists who adhere to established norms so often fight things like Creationism , even though they provide explanations where evolution can not . For science to progress , these conservative impulses must be fought against , which is why it is essential that when science is taught , so are all the prevailing theories concerning branches of the sciences , including Creationism . 	Scientific opinion often changes ; evolution may be accepted in the scientific community now , but it could well be rejected in future .
Many scientists do not accept the conclusions of the evolutionists . People like Dr. Michael Behe have dedicated themselves to exposing the flaws in evolution and showing that there is very real disagreement within the scientific community . This controversy is highlighted in the many court cases , books , and televised debates occurring in countries all over theworld . Children deserve to hear about the controversy , and not to simply be fed one story set for them by the prevailing majority in the scientific community , even if that community can not claim anything near consensus . Until consensus is reached and indisputable proof of one theory or the other given , both sides should be taught in schools . 	There is a very real controversy regarding the origin and development of life , and children deserve to hear both sides .
Full-body scans have the ability to protect countless people and save just as many lives . Fighting against a threat as big as terrorism , some rights need to take a backbench . Privacy is good , but outweighed in this case by the need to save lives . As Jon Adler of the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association told The Washington Post in January of 2009 : `` I think a bomb detonating on a plane is the biggest invasion of privacy a person can experience . '' Additionally , people who still feel that their privacy is infringed upon by the full-body scanner can always opt for the traditional pat-down by a security officer . In any case , some sort of check must occur . 	Full-body scans are in accordance with individual rights
Screening technologies with names like can show the contours of the body and reveal foreign objects . Such machines , properly used , are a leap ahead of the metal detectors used in most airports , and supporters say they are necessary to keep up with the plans of potential terrorists . argued the New York Times after the Detroit Christmas bombing . What this means is that the full-body scanners have the ability to detect hidden weapons , which are not necessarily large enough to be noticed otherwise , or metallic , to be seen by metal detectors . As the former homeland security secretary , Michael Chertoff states , you need to find some way to find those weapons . Full-body scanners come in here . 	Full-body scanners are an effective tool of counter-terrorism
Airport security has been an atrocious display of racial profiling . Security officers have systematically subjected Arabs and other ethnic groups to more severe security measures , while letting Caucasian travelers pass by hardly checked . This sort of racial profiling and lax security need to stop and full-body scanners are the way forward . By subjecting everyone to the scanner , which takes scarcely more than 20 seconds , security would increase by checking the people that some human security official might deem low risk and decrease the offense of that same security officials stereotypical selection of certain ethnic groups . 	Full body scanners reduce racial profiling while increasing security
Even alongside the colonial justifications for providing reparations , there are also many other strong reasons why former colonial powers should grant reparations . Former colonial powers tend to be economically developed , like America , Britain and France . The developed world should recognise the dire poverty and social challenges fed by the developing world today . Giving aid as an act of charity can sometimes be seen as derogatory , and is even rejected by the potential recipients . However , reparations allows a transfer of wealth between these countries in a way which is sensitive to the history between them , and which also demonstrates a desire to improve their relationship . It allows aid to be given to the developing world in a means which is dignified but not spurious . 	Reparations demonstrate a true concern for the developing world .
Given that much of the motive for colonisation was economic , many former colonies have suffered damage to their natural resources or human resources , which has left them less able to sustain a healthy economy . Colonists targeted countries with rich natural resources and little ability to defend themselves from invasion and manipulation . By this method , they could supply their own markets with the natural resources which they had already exploited at home , and find cheap -LRB- or free -RRB- human labour for their markets . Given that powerful countries such as Britain and France gained their own economic prosperity through the exploitation of the economic potential of the colonies , it is entirely appropriate and logical that they should pay reparations as compensation . In this way , the economic disparity between former colonies and colonists would be equalised . 	Reparations would effectively right the economic imbalance caused by colonialism .
In the past , dominating global powers have paid reparations and compensation for historical wrongs . For example , Germany pays an annual amount of money to Israel to recognise wrongs committed against Jews during the Holocaust , and to recognise the theft of Jewish property at this time . These reparations have helped Israeli infrastructure enormously , providing railways and telephones , dock installations and irrigation plants , whole areas of industry and agriculture and contributing to Israeli economic security . Japan also paid reparations to Korea after World War II as the Koreans were deprived of their nation and their identity . Britain has paid compensation to the New Zealand Maoris for the damage done during colonial times and the seizure of their land , and Iraq pays compensation to Kuwait for damage done during the invasion and occupation of 1990-91 . There is little reason why other nations should not be paid for the grievances caused to them by domination countries . There is support for the notion that colonial powers should pay for free universal education in Africa ; this would be an entirely appropriate and desirable measure . 	There is already a precedent for paying reparations to such states .
The entire basis for colonisation was predicated on an innate understanding and judgment of one superior culture and race . This ethnocentric approach idolised western traditions while simultaneously undermining the traditions of the countries which were colonised . For example , during the colonisation of America , colonists imposed a Westernised school system on Native American children . This denied their right to wear traditional clothing or to speak their native language , and the children were often subject to physical and sexual abuse and forced labour . The cause of this was simply ignorance of culture differences on behalf of the colonists , which was idyllically labelled and disguised as The White Mans Burden . Colonial powers undermined the social and property rights of the colonies , using military force to rule if civilians should rebel against colonisation in countries such as India . After Indian fighters rebelled against British colonial force in the Indian Mutiny of 1857-58 , the British struck back with terrible force , and forced the rebels to lick up part of the blood from the floors of the houses . The actions which occurred during colonisation are considered completely inappropriate and undesirable behaviour in a modern world , and in terms of indigenous rights to culture and to property , as well as human rights more generally . Reparations would be a meaningful act of apology for the wrongs which were committed during the past . 	What happened during the colonial era was morally wrong .
It is difficult for former colonies to feel as if they can move on and develop a wholly independent identity when their ties to the past , and to their former colonisers , have not been definitively ended . For example , while it is important to remember those who suffered under slavery , the overwhelming memory of it overpowers the history of those countries and innately links them back to former colonial powers . Furthermore , many of the problems now faced by former colonies can be traced back to the actions of colonial-era masters , for example the birth of ethnic tensions between minorities in Rwanda and Burundi . In order to move on from that damaging legacy , and to conclusively prove that such prejudices are wrong , it is necessary for former colonial powers to show a tangible move towards closing that colonial chapter of their history . In this way they can begin to move towards a fresh , equal and co-operative relationship with the developing countries which were their former colonies , without the background of history which currently warps such relationships . Italys payment of reparations to Libya allowed Libya to mend fences with the West and to improve international relationships . This is a step to recognise developing countries as a nation , rather than an economic opportunity . In this way , reparations would be an effective way of demonstrating a global community and spirit . 	Reparations would be a step towards closing colonial scars .
Where women in Africa are treated more as equals and are being given political power there are benefits for the economy . Africa is already surging economically with 6 out of the worlds ten fastest growing economies in the past decade being a part of sub-Saharan Africa . While some of the fastest growing economies are simply as a result of natural resource exploitation some are also countries that have given much more influence to women . 56 % of Rwandas parliamentarians are women . The countrys economy is growing ; its poverty rate has dropped from 59 % to 45 % in 2011 and economic growth is expected to reach up to 10 % by 2018 . Women become the driving force of the socio-economic development after the 1994 genocide with many taking on leadership roles in their communities . In Liberia , since Ellen Johnson Sirleaf took the presidency seat on January 2006 , notable reforms have been implemented in the country to boot the economy , and with visible results . Liberias GDP has grown from 4.6 % in 2009 to 7.7 % by the end of 2013 . Men in Africa on the other hand have often lead their countries into war , conflict , discord , and the resulting slower economic growth . Men fight leaving women behind to tend the household and care for the family . Giving women a greater voice helps encourage longer term thinking and discourages conflict , one of the main reasons for Africas plight in the second half of the 20 century . The feminisation of politics has been identified by Stephen Pinker as one of the causes for a decline in conflict . When peace brings economic growth women will deserve an outsize share of the credit . Baobab , Growth and other things , , May 1 2013 Izabiliza , Jeanne , The role of women in reconstruction : Experience of Rwanda , , Pinker , S. , 2011 	Women provide a platform for economic development
There is great potential in educating African women . Two out of three illiterate Africans are women . In 1996 the countries with the highest illiteracy rates in women are Burkina Faso with a staggering 91.1 % , Sierra Leone with 88.7 % , Guinea with 86.6 % and Chad with 82.1 % of women illiterate . The situation is however improving . Women are starting to reach their educational potential : by 2011 the illiteracy rate among female youth -LRB- 15-24 -RRB- had dropped to 52 % in Sierra Leone , 22 % in Guinea and 42 % in Chad . Women in Africa are becoming much better educated . This means they are much more likely to be able to reach their full potential in the economy . Education provides opportunities as educated women will be better able to work in the manufacturing or services sectors . They will also be much more capable of setting up and running their own businesses or organisations . As a more educated cohort of women enters the workforce they will have a much greater effect on the economy than women have had in the past . The role of Women in Post-independent Africa , 29 April 2011 , UNESCO Institute of Statistics , Literacy rate , youth female -LRB- % of females ages 15-24 -RRB- , , 2009-2013 , 	There is greater potential for African women
It sounds dramatic , but when more than 70 % percent of the agricultural labor force of Africa is represented by women , and that sector is a third of GDP , one can say that women really are the backbone of Africas economy . But the sector does not reach its full potential . Women do most of the work but hold none of the profit ; they can not innovate and receive salaries up to 50 % less than men . This is because they can not own land , they can not take loans , and therefore can not invest to increase profits . The way to make women key to Africas future therefore is to provide them with rights to their land . This will provide women with an asset that can be used to obtain loans to increase productivity . The Food and Agriculture organisation argues if women had the same access to productive resources as men , they could increase yields on their farms by 2030 percent . This could raise total agricultural output in developing countries by 2.54 percent , which could in turn reduce the number of hungry people in the world by 1217 percent . The bottom line is that women work hard but their work is not recognised and potential not realised . What is true in agriculture is even truer in other sectors where women do not make up the majority of workers where the simple lack of female workers demonstrates wasted potential . The inefficient use of resources reduces the growth of the economy . Oppong-Ansah , Albert , Ghanas Small Womens Savings Groups Have Big Impact , , 28 February 2014 , Mucavele , Saquina , The Role of Rural Women in Africa , , FAO , Gender Equality and Food Security , , 2013 , , p. 19 	Women are the backbone of Africas agriculture
People are often made to give bribes to officials because of unfavourable economic , social or bureaucratic conditions . Officials may refuse to serve clients unless they are paid . For example in Delhi police officers regularly take lunch without paying and more senior officers take 10,000 each month to allow the restaurant to stay open late . In those countries where state institutions are extremely corrupted , refusal to give a bribe may cost financial losses for business representatives or even health and liberty for citizens who need medical service and access to justice . 	Individuals may have no choice
`` Survival '' corruption , practised by public servants , is usually the result of small salaries , perhaps in highly inflationary economies , which do not allow them to make a living . Such as with the junior police officers mentioned in the previous point . Without bribery , public administration would collapse altogether as no one would have any incentive to get anything done . Thus the level of corruption is determined by the poor economic situation of the country as well as by the policy of the government . 	Bribery is sometimes necessary for survival
Norms and values differ between countries . In many non-western societies gift taking and giving in the public realm is a matter of traditions and customs . Moreover , gift giving is a part of negotiations and relationship building in some parts of the world . It is hypocritical for the west to target developing countries for this as many so-called democracies are hopelessly compromised by business interests through political funding and lobbying . The United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act bans large bribes but allows for the payment of small customary sums in order to ease transactions . 	Bribery is only wrong under a Western-centric notion of corruption
Bribery is often inevitable for foreign companies that invest in those countries , where corruption is widespread and the conditions for business development are unfavourable . In Russia IKEA , the Swedish furniture company , was asked to pay bribes to get electricity for its stores and refused hiring generators instead , however the generators themselves had their price inflated , as a result IKEA suspended investment in Russia . It illustrates that bribe giving is just a result of political system with weak democratic traditions . That is why many companies from developed countries , where corruption levels are low , tend to practise bribery in the developing world . 	Bribery is sometimes the cost of doing business
A change in US immigration law in 1996 meant that non-citizens and foreign born citizens sentenced to more than a year in jail are deported . This moved the problem from the USAs cities to cities in Central America creating new gangs that were already bound by ties created in the US . Effectively gangs created in the US thrived in central America where they were able to overwhelm the local government and spread north to Mexico and back into the USA helping create the network of gangs and drugs traffickers that plague Mexico today . Similarly the problems in Mexico represent the success of the US in cutting of the routes through the Caribbean used previously by drugs traffickers . Colombian criminals as a result simply switched routes and began smuggling cocaine and heroin through the Central American isthmus and Pacific routes . Both smuggling routes led through Mexico . The successes of the war on drugs in Columbia has reduced the size of the drugs groups in Columbia reducing their ability to control the whole route to the USA making room for the Mexicans to take the role of middleman through Central America . 	U.S. policies have helped create the cartels
For the last two decades the USA has been focused on the supply side of reducing the drugs trade . Making it a ` war on drugs ' forces a fight back from the drugs cartels leading to gunfights and instability in the countries en route . This happened in Columbia , in Peru and now in Mexico . The focus on supply , or else the containment of drugs in Mexico , is shown by the Obama 's US-Mexico border policy press release that devotes a lot more space to extra boarder security to catching the drugs as they reach the US compared with one small paragraph on demand . The U.S. war on drugs focusing on supply and transit routes has clearly failed and has been failing for decades . Back in 1992 Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori declared the war a failure while claiming that between 1980 and 1990 , when the U.S. was engaging in military efforts to stop production and transportation , coca production increased tenfold . 	U.S. anti-drugs policy focuses on the supply of drugs not the root problem of demand
While the US complains about the Mexicos inability to stop drugs flowing north the USA seems equally unable to stop guns and weapons flowing south into Mexico . As Clinton says Our inability to prevent weapons from being illegally smuggled across the border to arm these criminals causes the deaths of police officers , soldiers and civilians . Clinton argues that one problem is that the bad guys outgun the law enforcement officers and so is supplying Mexico with better equipment such as night vision goggles , however at least in the short term the only result can be an arms race and more violence as shown by the increasing violence in 2010 and 2011 . So long as the cartels are able to easily buy guns then the problem will not be solved . Here again the United States is to blame . The United States has 54,000 licenced gun dealers while Mexico only has one heavily guarded compound so the cartels smuggle their weapons in from the U.S . 	U.S. supplies the guns used by drugs cartels
Allowing grey imports is consistent with the basic principles of free trade . -LRB- Free trade principles WTO -RRB- If a manufacturer/distributor is selling the same item at different prices in two countries , free market economics suggests that the rational purchaser will purchase in the cheaper of the two , presuming , for example , that the difference will not be wholly swallowed up by transaction and transportation costs or taxes . If this logic holds for a consumer choosing between two jeans shops in his town , it must also hold for a retailer choosing between a jeans manufacturers price lists in two countries . Until recently , there was an information asymmetry -LRB- rational markets requiring information symmetry -RRB- , as the manufacturer knew about their differential pricing , but the purchaser did not ; information technology has now changed the equation and allowed the market to operate more efficiently . Not only this , but consumers can already buy products from pretty much anywhere in the world , as long as they can pay the postage . 	The free movement of goods is consistent with the basic principles of free trade .
Consumers benefit from grey imports . The economics of grey importation drives sourcing to low-cost economies . Even if retailers take some of this benefit as improved profit margins , typically at least some of it will be passed on to consumers in the form of reduced prices . Grey imports also allow consumers to buy products that may not yet be available in their own market , because they have not yet been released , or because in their market the manufacturer feels there is insufficient demand . Thus , grey imports expand consumer choice . Many films , DVD 's and video games are released in one region months before others , and grey imports allow enthusiasts to access their favoured products earlier than they otherwise would . 	Buyers benefit from grey imports , in the form of greater consumer choice .
Allowing grey imports means that manufacturers do not concentrate economic power in a monopolistic way which can be damaging to free trade -LRB- even Adam Smith believed certain monopolies were antithetical to free trade -RRB- . Banning them is tantamount to granting a licensed monopoly or cartel on a country-by-country basis , which inevitably means higher prices for consumers . As manufacturing has increasingly been relocated into a smaller number of offshore countries , rather than in the country of purchase , it makes sense that other parts of the supply chain should make a similar move so that they too can realise the efficiency benefits of a globalised economy . 	Allowing grey goods breaks down monopolies and passes on lower prices to consumers .
UN reform has been a major objective of the United States , and government leaders assert that six years of no-growth budgets and pressure from the United States have resulted in reforms of the General Assembly , budget preparation procedures , the creation of sunset provisions for UN programs and improvements in staff security . It is argued that these reforms could not have been accomplished without the carrot and stick approach of the no-growth policy . The UN has a budget in the billions of dollars which it can spend more efficiently if it sets goals and priorities , evaluates outcomes and eliminates waste and corruption . This has already been proven in 1996-1997 `` Although this budget is not as lean as my Government originally proposed , it is perhaps the most austere ever adopted by the General Assembly '' , the United States representative said . The budget included a number of significant reform measures and marked `` another in a series of significant steps towards a more effective , efficient and accountable United Nations '' , he declared , calling the Organization `` unique and indispensable '' . 	No-growth funding policy results in better operation of the finances and will improve financial discipline .
The United Nations is a voluntary body and reflects global realities , including the role of the USA as the dominant superpower . Without the consent of the USA , the UN can achieve nothing , and active US opposition to the UN could destroy the organisation along with all its potential for good . It is better for the UN to accept US demands for budgetary restraint and reform than to provoke the USA by unrealistic demands into withdrawing from its councils.This means that the UN should reflect the views of the United States as a result `` Policy of the United Nations should be based on three fundamental questions : Are we advancing the American interests ? Are we upholding American values ? Are we being responsible towards for the American taxpayer dollars ? '' According to Josh Rogin `` Unfortunately , right now , the answer to all three questions is no . '' -LSB- 1 -RSB- -LSB- 1 -RSB- Rogin , Josh . House Republicans ' next target : the United Nations 26/01/2011 	The United Nations needs the United States .
The phrase give them an inch and theyll take a mile is appropriate here . It is noteworthy that Russia has a Security Council veto , but does not even appear in the top 15 nations contributing to the budget . The UN has become dependent on the USA and other industrialized nations to foot an enormous amount of the bill for UN operations . While the proportions of other states economies are markedly smaller , other nations sometimes reap far more of the rewards of UN existence than they contribute - The United States is far and away the biggest single contributor to the U.N. system . In 2006 , the total U.S. contributions came to at least $ 2.7 billion and that excludes the private sector , which by most independent estimates , draws most of its $ 1.5 billion in U.N. contributions from U.S. sources . -LSB- 1 -RSB- Should the US remain a consistent donor and allow itself to be asked for more and more as the UN budget becomes more bloated , or should it assert itself and say that , in real dollars , a line must be drawn ? -LSB- 1 -RSB- Russel , George . The U.N. : Even More Expensive Than It Looks 06/11/2008 	There has been a serious inequality in the funding of the UN budget .
The United States has made a significant investment in the institution . Not only was it a founder , but it plays host to the body in New York and makes the largest contribution of any nation each year . `` The debate over whether the United Nations will continue to overcharge American taxpayers is over and the U.S. wound up on the losing end . In a dramatic turnaround from steady declines since 2001 , the percentage that the U.S. will be charged for U.N. peacekeeping has been sharply increased for the next three years , and U.S. taxpayers will end up paying roughly $ 100 million more each year than they would have if the 2009 assessment rate had been maintained . -LSB- 1 -RSB- This is not acting responsibly in a time where Americans are feeling the pinch from the economic downturn . American taxpayers recognize that their society faces a great many problems that could be addressed with the dollars that are annually spent on the UN . While Americans are generally supportive of the institution , they have a right to know that their investment is used appropriately and pays dividends in good policy . -LSB- 1 -RSB- Schaefer , Brent . U.N. Dues : Obama Lets American Taxpayers Down 6/01/2010 . 	The US has a right to expect that its taxpayers ' money is spent responsibly .
As highlighted earlier , Condom Distribution can counter harms such as STIs and Teenage Pregnancy . It also can provide an educational benefit . By providing teenagers with frank , straightforward information about both sex and condoms young people will be much more likely to understand when they are ready to have sex . They will also be much more confident in rejecting unwanted advances and avoiding reckless or risky sexual encounters . This policy will reduce the harms that are associated with a lack of sex education Not just in terms of STIs and pregnancy , but also misinformation and ignorance . Increasing numbers of teenagers are learning about sex via inaccurate and misleading portrayals of sexual activity -LRB- lads mugs , porn , television and film -RRB- . Better to give teenagers the full facts about sex rather than obscuring it from them , causing them to be misinformed . 	Condoms have a role in sex education
Providing condoms to students in public education programs will reduce the incidence of underage pregnancy and the spread of sexually transmitted diseases . If one accepts the premise that condoms are an effective means of prevention , it stands to reason that their distribution could have a significant impact . Condoms are one of the most effective means of protecting against STIs -LRB- Sexually transmitted infections -RRB- , HIV and pregnancy . For their cost , they are easily the most effective means of protecting against these threats . -LSB- 1 -RSB- It is especially important that we equip schoolchildren with knowledge of how to use condoms given that rates of both teenage pregnancy and STI cases are alarmingly high in the UK -LRB- The UK has the highest number of teenage mothers in Western Europe -RRB- -LSB- 2 -RSB- . Something must be done to halt this trend , and it makes sense to make condoms available for use . 	Condoms are a useful preventative measure
The media increasingly resembles one of the drug addicts it is usually so keen to condemn . As competition over dwindling advertising revenue becomes increasingly bitter , papers become ever more desperate for the next hit story normally represented by celebrity gossip or a minor scandal . Such content has nothing to do with bold investigative journalism and everything to do with muck-racking for salacious stories and - when that doesnt work - simply fabricating them . Creating the impression that Millie Dowler was still alive was simply the most grotesque of a series of activities that put sales way ahead of truth . 	The British tabloid press isnt so much free as in freefall . Tabloid journalism in the UK has always been reckless and arrogant in pursuit of the trivial , but as advertising revenue dwindles that trend looks set to get worse
In an age when any fool with a cell phone and a twitter account can snap a topless pop star on the beach , tabloid hacks are under greater pressure than ever to go the extra mile . There is little reason to doubt that they will . Privacy is already one of the dominant legal issues of our age that looks likely to become ever more the case . Against that background , when a flat out lie can be broadcast around the world in seconds , clearly a different legal and regulatory framework is needed from the old days of print where an apology was actually relevant however begrudgingly given . 	There have to be limits to the permissible levels of intrusion into peoples lives , in an increasingly connected world people- celebrities or not- have never been more conscious of this simple fact .
The phone hacking scandal is simply a new low in the recent , tawdry life of the tabloid press . As the Leveson Inquiry is discovering , the use of private detectives , bribing police officers , and trailing the children of celebrities all seem to be common tricks not just for the News of the World but for tabloid journalism as an industry . Indeed , the journalist who broke the story for the Guardian admitted to the Levenson inquiry that he had hacked a phone on one occasion . Despite the protestation of the Guardians editors that 99 percent of journalists wouldnt know how to hack a phone , such practices and a culture that invades privacy seems commonplace . 	The British tabloid press has proved singularly incapable of regulating or for that matter restraining itself .
Any system of standardized testing -LRB- where everyone is given the same test -RRB- assumes that all students learn at the same rate . But this is not the case . Talented students and un-talented students should not be measured by the same test . Handing down a standard national test from the top is bound to end up with a `` one-size-fits-all '' result that does n't suit the weakest or the best students . In the United Kingdom , national testing was introduced in 1988 . By 2002 , 90 % of students at the best schools got the top grade , whilst 300,000 of the United Kingdom 's worst pupils failed to pass . The national test ` has not only become too easy for the academically able , but it is still too difficult for the bottom 40 per cent , who cry out for courses to help them make sense of their last three years of compulsoryschooling . A one-size-fits-all national test does not adequately measure the ability of the student , and fails to motivate students in their education . The best students find them too easy , the worst students find them too difficult . 	National , standardized tests are a poor measure of student learning
National testing will result in teachers `` teaching to the test '' . Students will be taught how to take tests instead of learning skills and knowledge that will help them become good citizens . This is because teachers will be judged based on how well their students do at tests , not on other important things like whether they are better behaved , more confident or learning faster . As Charles Murray describes , his children 's school lost their best English teacher because he said ' I want to teach my students how to write not teach them how to pass a test that says they can write . With national testing , they will become good test takers but will miss out on the joy of learning for learnings sake . Subjects like art and music that are not covered on the national tests could be cut so that more time can be spent teaching students to pass the test . Childrens education would become focused on a yearly test . 	National testing encourages teachers to 'teach to the test ' , rather than teach life skills
The idea of national testing may seem like a good idea until you start to actually try to agree the standards that teachers must teach to . Agreeing what must be taught is difficult enough in a local setting ; nationally such agreement is probably not achievable . Which historic figures should all students learn about ? What parts of history are most important ? Should creationism be taught in science or religious education ? Maribeth Wilkerson , a graduate student of education , argues ` public schools are serving a particular community , so for that community to not have a say in what 's taught and how does n't seem right ' . Also , and partly as a result , good standards are difficult to come up with . Standards are either too vague so that the test-makers and teachers do not know what material to focus on , or they are too detailed so that teachers and students are swamped by the large number of subjects that must be covered . For instance , in the United States , standards are expected to improve with time , leading to fears that even if schools and students improve , they will not do so quick enough to meet national expectations . Some even fear that ` by 2014 , virtually every school across our country will have failed the unrealistic mandates of No Child Left Behind ' , the program that enforces national testing . 	It is impossible , in large countries , to have a national curriculum that teaches all the relevant information and sets a fair common standard
Teachers and parents , who pay most of the school costs , either through taxation or fees , should be able to choose what is taught there . Particularly in large countries , schools across the country are very different and should be able therefore to teach different things . However , national testing means that every school would have to teach the same information to their students . In the United States , each state has previously set its own curriculum -LRB- set of courses -RRB- and tests - after all , they pay 90 % of the costs of schooling . When national testing was introduced however , communities were forced to replace their own testing methods with the national test . This therefore removes the right of communities to run their schools as they feel is best . 	Teachers and parents should choose what is taught at schools
Using a national test to check if schools and their teachers are good enough , or if students are learning fast enough , is not right . It is unfair on students , and will lead to good teachers being forced out of their jobs , making problems worse . Teachers point out that they are being judged on results , but that results are affected by other things , like the size of classes and the background of the student . A better option is to look at everything the student has done , not simply one test . Instead of testing a student on just one day , an assessment should use teacher reports , teacher-created tests , and student presentations that take place over the entire school year . In other words , they should ask ` did the child 's knowledge and skills grow at least one year 's worth ? That is the important question , not whether this third grade scores better than the previous year 's third grade . ' This would especially benefit students who are not good test takers . Finland is one such example of a state that has no national testing , the government instead looks at an ' 8 to 10 per cent sample of pupil 's work to check on performance ' . Finland is the same country which has consistently been ranked the world 's best education system for almost all of the past decade . 	Using a national test to judge the quality of a school or of its teachers and students is wrong .
There are only two things that really matter when targeting terrorists ; is the terrorist eliminated , and is collateral damage kept to a minimum ? In Pakistan there have been a total of 334 strikes by UAVs between 2004 and June 2012 with the total reported killed at 2496-3202 of which only 482-832 were civilians according to the Bureau of Investigative Journalism . Moreover the number of civilians killed in strikes is falling ; 28 percent of casualties in 2008 were civilians but by 2011 this had fallen to 16 percent and this is a figure that is likely to continue falling as drones improve technologically making identification easier and making strikes more precise . These figures show that the United States in its use of drones is not only hitting a lot of terrorist targets and eliminating them but is causing very little collateral damage in comparison to the number of strikes made . 	UAVs cause less collateral damage .
We need to eliminate terrorists somehow and UAVs are the best possible equipment with which to carry out this mission . All the other options either would result in significantly more casualties or would have other problems that would likely allow terrorists to escape . First there is the collateral damage that would be caused by using other alternatives to striking terrorists . Professor Plaw of the University of Massachusetts says that when terrorists were being confronted by the Pakistani Army , who were attacking at the behest of the United States , 46 % of casualties were collateral damage . A similar number of 41 % was the figure when Israel was targeting Hamas . When compared to the 16 or 28 % collateral damage figures for UAVs the choice should be easy . Moreover other options have other disadvantages . Sending a hit squad in to eliminate terrorists may mean little collateral damage but would cause a diplomatic crisis as it would be tantamount to invading another country . Using a missile or local support on the other hand significantly increases the chances of the target escaping . Pakistans ISI , military intelligence , has for example been accused of helping the Taliban they could hardly be trusted to kill them . 	UAVs are the best possible weapon for the job .
To put it bluntly any military or intelligence service wants to keep its own men safe while carrying out its missions ; Unmanned Aerial Vehicles are the ultimate capability with which to manage this . No military or civilian personnel are going to be killed if the delivery vehicle is controlled from the United States . This means that unlike in other methods of attack the UAV can take its time even if it is at risk . In the war in Kosovo NATO air forces had to launch their attacks from 15,000 feet due to worries they would be shot down . Attacking from such a height from a fast moving aeroplane makes missing the target much more likely . 	Using UAVs prevents soldiers from being killed .
When engaging in covert operations it is essential that the right target is identified so that the correct target is eliminated . This is something that using UAVs allows as they are able to track their target , sometimes for days , before attacking . This means there is much more time for scrutiny of targets and possible collateral damage . This also means that there is plenty of room for the decisions to be made right at the top . Every person on the kill list gets discussed at a weekly meeting of more than 100 members of the US governments security apparatus . President Obama himself signs off on strikes and can change the decision if the situation on the ground changes . Former National Security Advisor Jones says Many times at the 11th hour we waved off a mission simply because the target had people around them and we were able to loiter on station until they didnt . While UAVs may be unmanned they are certainly heavily monitored as each drone has 43 military personnel rotating in three shifts . They include seven joystick pilots , seven system operators , and five mission coordinators , there is also from the CIA 66 people , including 34 video crew members , and 18 intelligence analysts . This means that there are a large number of eyeballs to make sure that the right person is being targeted , to check he is with as few others as possible before the strike . None of this would be possible with other forms of attack where the emphasis has to be on the speed of the operation . . 	UAVs allow more care and safeguards before shooting .
The text is often translated differently from the original Hebrew , reflecting variances in intent on the part of different sects , such as Protestants , Jews , and Catholics . This is a profoundly sensitive issue and any perceived favouritism on the part of the government would simply result in a greater backlash . Better to sidestep this problem altogether and have a blanket policy against posting the Decalogue . 	That there are multiple versions of the Ten Commandments presents a hurdle , since the choice to display any particular version is an enshrinement of that specific interpretation and consequently , even other Christian groups will be offended and oppose it .
Our legislators must be conscious of the dangers of wrapping the Ten Commandments in the flag and indicating that one faith or religious set of laws is more patriotic or representative of the nation 's fundamental values than another . That idea can easily be used as a weapon against a minority 's group rights as well as their sense of belonging to the country . Regardless of the role they may have played at the founding , our current society is an extraordinarily multicultural one , composed of a variety of religious minorities , including Muslims , Hindus , and Buddhists . The world has seen a tremendous rise in Islamic extremism as well as in conservative xenophobic reactions to it -LRB- for instance , the 2011 Breivik attacks in Norway -RRB- , and to prevent such things from happening , our children need to know how to live together peacefully and value all backgrounds . McCreary County v. ACLU of Kentucky , oral argument 	We should teach our children to respect all faiths instead of enshrining the documents of one .
Public schools are run by the government and as such have an obligation to cleave to that principle of separation of church and state . It is against the Ten Commandments to believe in `` other gods '' , but we expressly permit belief in other religious systems and atheism via constitutional protections . Not only is this a violation of the principle of separation , but it also sends a mixed message to those groups , and runs the risk of alienating those who do not conform to these ideals . Posting the Decalogue is obviously tremendously divisive - a serious culture war of lawsuits , protests , and speech has been waged over the issue . Unless schools were to post texts for literally every religion and atheism as well , this goal can not be achieved if the Ten Commandments are in the classroom . Neutrality is the best antidote to contemporary culture wars . Van Orden v. Perry , oral argument Ibid . Lane , Charles . `` Court Split Over Commandments . '' 	Government needs to be separated from church and religion in order to preserve pluralism in society and prevent marginalization and oppression of religious minorities .
There are very difficult issues involved here ; students will not easily understand whether the prohibition on killing applies to the death penalty , wars , assisted suicide , and a number of other very sensitive public policies subject to intense debate . Likewise , the prohibition against adultery could be interpreted as not banning pre-marital relations , non-coital sexual behaviour , and other actions the state may not in fact wish to endorse . Rev . Henderson , Charles . `` The Ten Commandments : Too Hot For School House Walls . '' Robinson , B.A . Religioustolerance.org 	There is bound to be ambiguous interpretation of the Commandments , which will result in student confusion and diminish the intended impact on children 's morals .
The philosophical basis of entitlement for pay is derived from the notion that if something comes into being as the product of an individuals labor , then that individual is entitled to the profit and benefit of such a product because its existence was resultant of that individuals labor . That in this case the labor is on services does not make any difference , the product of the housewifes labor is that the children are looked after and domestic matters are all sorted . This is beneficial to society as housewives in addition to helping their own family are likely to have the time to help out others through volunteering , through looking after others children after school etc . . It is estimated that the value of a housemakers services would be equivalent to approximately 30,000 per year . In the same way that any product or service is created , offered or manufactured by individual workers , the services of home-keeping are delivered by the labor of the home-keeper . Just as all workers are entitled to remuneration for the goods and services they create , so is a housewife is so entitled for the house-keeping services they offer . 	Housewives are entitled to pay
Gender stereotypes dictate that the womans place is in the home and that that is an inferior position in the social hierarchy than that of the males corporate bread-winner status . The stereotype is particularly damaging to womens expectations for themselves and the way society treats women . By paying housewives for their work , a greater emphasis is placed on the role of the home-keeper and on the women that tend to this job . It elevates the position of women in the household by economically empowering them and giving them the very thing that usually implies the greater importance of the bread-winners in the family -LRB- economic power and status -RRB- . Moreover , it elevates societal views of housewives and home-keepers by valuing their contributions to the household and society in a tangible , monetary way that society cares about . Paying housewives for their work grants greater social status and power to women and family lives , which improves views of women and the roles they take in the family . 	Paying housewives promotes more positive images of women and family life
One of the most important factors of oppression of womens rights , particularly in the developing world , is dependence . Women are often confined to the home by force , lack of opportunity or social stigma , on behalf of their husbands . When she is not paid , a housewife must rely on her husband for money , especially if she has children she is expected to take care of . Economic empowerment allows further freedom for women in countries where women are confined to the home . By making women economic actors , you empower them to engage in different social structures and hold a stake and position in the centres of economic power . This is the most empowering tool one can offer women in most countries around the world . By paying housewives for their work , you offer one of the most powerful forms of social empowerment for women around the world . 	Paying housewives for their work is an important form of economic empowerment .
Integration is something that is already happening due to the existence of Creoles . Bryson -LRB- 1991 -RRB- states that , `` According to Dr Loreto Todd of Leeds University , the world has sixty-one creoles -LRB- languages that are a mix of two different ones , such as the many different Pidgins spoken around the world -RRB- spoken by up to 200 million people . '' Creole languages are the ultimate form of language integration , and most would argue that this is n't language death , and can in fact enhance the culture through the new language . 	Language integration is already happening .
The United Nations already has universal education high up the priority list . The second millennium development goal is to achieve universal primary education and to ` ensure that , by 2015 , children everywhere , boys and girls alike , will be able to complete a full course of primary schooling ' . Universal schooling is the key to teaching a global language . This does not mean that children will be forced to learn a global language , but because of the utility of the language most will want to when they are given the opportunity . The global spread of English encourages non-native speakers to learn a second language ; English . Without English , a second language would only slightly increase the number of people you could communicate with . With English -LRB- or , if it ever takes off , Esperanto ! -RRB- there is a stronger incentive to learn the single language that will dramatically improve your ability to communicate with others around the world . 	It would n't be that impractical to make everyone learn English .
Poetry and other significant literary works could be translated into English so that everyone can enjoy them . This would be equally true of scientific and technical information as well as teaching staff and institutions . Most popular classical works are translated into other languages without loss of meaning e.g . poems of Robert Burns from the original Scots into English . And why would we purposely want to make it difficult for people to understand each other ? Surely understanding each other is more important than learning about their culture but not being able to converse whatsoever . This would have immense benefits for science as researchers all over the world would be able to understand each other 's work . 	Works of poetry , songs and novels could be translated into just one language providing access for everyone to a diverse range of culture .
Translation is very expensive , but while there is no common language also necessary . All sorts of documents have to be translated into several languages even within countries , for example UK councils provide information on their activities in the major minority languages within their area . With a global language this will be cheaper and quicker as well as reducing the potential for misunderstanding . The European Union is the big example of this with all documents needing to be translated into every member state 's language . The total bill for the EU in translation fees was 800 million in 2004 , that 's 2 per citizen . Roxburgh , 	Translation in business or politics can be very expensive and time consuming .
The world is becoming increasingly more and more globalised and a common language of communication is necessary to help this continue . Countries are more interdependent than ever and with the advances that we have seen in technology in the last few decades , communication is instantaneous . For us to be able to effectively communicate , especially within fields such as international trade and economics , as well as diplomacy , a common working language is key . McDonalds for example have almost thirty three thousand branches in almost every country in the world within such big global companies communication is essential . Not surprisingly these multi-national companies increasingly opt for English as their corporate language regardless of where the company originally comes from , for example Japanese based Rakuten is to make English its company language from 2012 . 	A Global language is necessary in a globalized world .
Random drug tests will pose no harm to students who do not use illegal drugs , as they have nothing to fear from this fact being certified . If anything it serves as a vindication of their law-abidance and good character . Random drug tests will only catch those who are actively taking drugs , as tests can be used which are unlikely to make a ` positive ' reading from secondary exposure -LRB- for example , being near someone else smoking cannabis -RRB- . Those actively taking drugs need help in getting off drugs far more urgently than they need their right to ` privacy ' , as addiction at a young age could have a significant negative impact upon the remainder of their time in education . Therefore , non-drug users have nothing to fear from testing . As a result random checks are in the best interests of drug users . 	No harm to non-drug users
Spending on young people is an investment . While there may be other objectives too , such as taking young people off the street to prevent trouble , when there is spending on young people this is almost always to ensure they have either a broader , or more focused skill base . This is done through education , training , and apprenticeships . Having a better skilled workforce has a beneficial effect on economic growth . This means that there are several economic benefits to spending on youth ; there is the initial fiscal benefit from the spending on youth followed over years and decades by a return on the investment from having higher skilled workers . This higher skilled workforce will then over time pay back the initial investment through paying more tax as a result of being more productive -LRB- so earning more -RRB- . There is then a change from the unemployed youth being a burden on the state and the economy to a contributor . A study in the US suggests that a 25 year old with little education past 16 and no job will cost the taxpayer $ 258,000 over their lifetime . If trained and given a job this can clearly be turned into a gain for the taxpayer and society . This is similar to why it is more beneficial to the economy to spend on infrastructure than simply handing cash out . Both will give a fiscal boost from the money being spent but handing money out wont bring a return decades later . Belfield , Clive R. , The Economic Value of Opportunity Youth , , January 2012 , , p. 2 	Spending on youth is best for the economy
In most western countries the baby boomers -LRB- those who were born between the end of the second world war and the mid-1960s -RRB- could be considered to have led a charmed life . They were the beneficiaries of free schooling and university education , then of an expanding economy that provided enough jobs , and finally high pensions . David Willetts , the UK Minister for Universities and Science , estimates that the boomers are set to take out about 118 % of what they put in to the welfare state . The current generation on the other hand in some countries are having to pay more for their education and then find there is no job available . To make matters worse they are likely to be paying more for their elders pensions -LRB- which come out of current workers national insurance not that which was paid in by the boomers themselves -RRB- and healthcare and then will have to work longer for a smaller pension themselves . This means that if spending remains on its current trajectory most spending will remain directed at the baby boomers for decades to come . Reeves , Richard , The Pinch : How the Baby Boomers Stole Their Childrens Future by David Willetts , , 7 February 2010 , 	The youth are getting a raw deal
Allowing high rates of youth unemployment and underemployment to continue could be disastrous . When people lose hope they are much more likely to turn to violence , or towards crime and drugs . There are clearly extreme examples of this ; one cause of the second world war was the great depression and feeble recovery that preceded it , similarly in Africa according to the World Bank 40 % of those who join rebel movements are motivating by a lack of jobs . A new World War , or succession conflicts , are unlikely , though not impossible , in Europe . Much more likely however are riots and social unrest aimed at government ; youth unemployment was a spark for the Arab Spring . In the west youth protests such as the occupy movement or indignados have so far mostly been peaceful but they may not remain that way without hope of improvement . Ighobor , Kingsley , Africas youth : a ticking time bomb or an opportunity ? , , May 2013 , See the debatabase debate This House believes the Euro is a threat to peace The youth employment crisis : Time for action , , 101 Session , 2012 , , Pp.2-3 	Leaving large numbers of young people unemployed could be dangerous
Typically businesses , and most people , think about the short term ; how they are going to live or produce a profit over the next few years . This leaves the role of thinking across broader horizons to the government . Governments need to plan to ensure the prosperity of the nation in twenty or even fifty years time because many of their current citizens will still be alive . This planning is also necessary because of the length of time that large scale construction projects or social changes take . For example In the energy sector , investments are made for a period between 20 and 60 years . Decisions on what kind of power to support , coal , gas , nuclear , or renewables , will still be making an impact in half a century . Clearly when thinking longer term it simply makes sense to focus on younger people as they are going to have an impact for longer . Just the same as in energy policy if a nation makes mistakes with its treatment of its youth it will be feeling the consequences for half a century . It is clearly in the long term interest of the state to invest in its youth . The Commission 's Energy Roadmap 2050 , 15 December 2011 , MEMO/11/914 , 	The government must do what is in the long term interest of the county
In the last 25 years , the number of people in the UK who identify as non-religious has gone up from 31 % to 50 % of the population , while people in the UK who identify as religious has gone down by the same amount . Clearly then , there are growing numbers of non-religious people in the UK and falling numbers of religious people . Separating the church and the state would highlight that one does not have to be part of a certain religion to contribute to the state.With the non-religious now making up half the population it no longer makes sense for one denomination of Christianity to have such an official connection to the state . 	Separation would show non-religious people that their contributions to the state are valued .
It is important to note that it is not religion in general which has this special access to the state in the UK but the Church of England specifically . This means that the state is showing favouritism to the Church of England over other religions by allowing it a far greater contribution to the running of the state . Therefore , separating the church and the state would put all of the religions in the country on an even level of contribution , which is none , and in the process show acceptance of these other religions . This is especially important as the number of people who identify as following religions other than Christianity in the UK has doubled in the last 20 years . Additionally , many people identify more with their religion than with any country and so this move would help show acceptance of those cultures by the British state . 	Separation would show acceptance of other religions .
The role of the state is to protect its people and to create the conditions for its peoples prosperity . The Church does not share these objectives . The Churchs objectives are , instead , to either convert as many people as possible to its own religion , and to save souls brining people into its own perceived afterlife . The Anglican church itself considers its mission to be transformation - transforming individual lives , transforming communities and transforming the world . that calling is carried out at the national level of the Church of England in evangelism , development of parish congregations . Such a mission is inherently aimed solely at benefiting those within the church or those who can be converted not society as a whole . The current confusion of state and Church , therefore , is likely to cloud the states judgement and limit the states ability to provide the maximum possible prosperity and security for its people . Weller , Paul . Time for a Change : Reconfiguring Religion , State & Society . T & T Clark Intl . 2005 . 	The churchs involvement undermines the role of the state .
An elected mayor would revitalise local democracy . At present many people have no idea who their local councillors are , or who leads their council , perhaps because collective decision-making is generally unexciting . It is not surprising then that turnout is only around 30 % and in some urban areas in Britain fewer than 1 in 4 adults bother to vote in local elections the worst turnout in the EU . An elected mayor would act as a focus for local people , both symbolically and as someone with real power to improve their lives . Local elections would gain more coverage and more peoples attention as they are voting for one recognisable figure rather than a number of councillors . This in turn would turn attention to local democracy and increase turnout in elections . 	Electing a Mayor will revitalise local democracy
Electing mayors would improve accountability in local government . A Mayor would have a bigger mandate , which could be up to 500,000 votes compared to 5,000 for individual councillors making them more directly accountable to the citys electorate . They are also more visible ; 57 % of people could name their mayor when they had one compared to only 8 % being able to name their council leader and so they are more likely to be held to account for their individual policies . By comparison where there are not mayors an elaborate and confusing series of committees make decisions in most areas , making it easy for individual councillors or parties to dodge responsibility for unpopular decisions or failed policies . Bristol is a good example of this with wobbly coalitions resulting from backroom deals and constantly shifting politics ; the council changed hands seven times in the ten years to 2012 . Placing this power in the hands of an elected mayor would streamline decision-making and increase accountability . A mayor who failed to improve local services or in other ways implement their campaign promises would have little chance of re-election . 	Mayors would be more accountable than a council
Elected mayors would allow talented individuals to make a difference , regardless of their party affiliation . The present system rewards long-serving and loyal party hacks rather than innovative managers , thinkers and leaders ; polls show that the public think councillors put party politics above the needs of their community . Those who are most talented who are elected are simply using the council as a stepping stone for running for national office . If mayors were directly elected , local parties would have to find dynamic candidates with a proven ability to solve problems and manage big organisations , or risk such candidates running and winning as independents . This has already been shown to be the case in London where Ken Livingstone -LRB- who initially became Mayor as an independent -RRB- and Boris Johnson , both established and well known politicians , ran for Mayor , and in Birmingham where Lam Byrne , formally no . 2 at the treasury , has expressed an interest in running . 	Elected Mayors would attract the best candidates to run for office .
Elected mayors would speak on behalf of their communities , raising the profile of their town or city nationally and internationally . This could be particularly valuable when negotiating with businesses , helping to draw valuable investment into their area and overcoming bureaucratic hurdles that typically hinder development . Chambers of commerce in cities that are holding referendums believe a figurehead will provide a focal point for business relations and a single point of contact that champions the citys interests . In addition , mayors would give local government in general a higher profile after years of increasing centralisation by national government . Acting collectively , and through the change in attitudes their higher media profile would generate , mayors would be able to draw power away from the centre once again and bring it closer to the people . 	Mayors would raise the profile of the city they represent
A variety of international studies have found that increasing the cost of alcohol reduces its consumption , along with the health and social harms associated with it . In Australia , after the introduction of a higher taxation towards alcohol , in 2008/2009 , the overall consumption of alcohol dropped by 1.5 per cent and the number of teen-alcohol drinkers dropped in 3 years from the introduction of the policy for 27 per cent . Further on , a study conducted by the Harvard School of Public Health concerning the relationship of price increases and drinking among college students shows , that `` students faced with a $ 1 increase above the $ 2.17 average price for a drink will be 33 percent less likely to make the transition from being an abstainer to a moderate drinker , or from being a moderate drinker to a heavy drinker . '' This supports the theory that drinking can be prevented by a higher tax . The proposition would not claim that this is the only government policy that should be pursued to reduce the harms associated with alcohol , but it is a vital measure alongside other policies such as education initiatives , programs to help alcoholics overcomes their addiction , proof-of-age schemes , etc . . And unlike these , it has the advantage of being in itself a very cheap intervention ; there is not even the cost associated with collecting a tax . , accessed 18/08/2011 , accessed 18/08/2011 	This policy would be effective at decreasing alcohol consumption in general
This measure will be good for public houses and bars -LRB- licensed premises -RRB- , which have been struggling in recent years in comparison to supermarkets and discount retailers -LRB- off-licenses -RRB- that can sell alcohol much more cheaply . This is because they do not have the same overheads and can take advantage of economies of scale . Pubs often sell alcohol at rates that would be higher than any minimum price . Clubs and pubs which offer happy hours and other irresponsible drinks deals would be the only ones affected by this proposal . Not only are pubs community centers that help to bring people together , they also have a good record in promoting sensible drinking and reducing hazardous activities 	A minimum price supports licensed bars .
It is the government 's responsibility to promote the health and wellbeing of its citizens . Taxpayers are forced to pay for the cost of alcohol related ill-health and anti-social behavior . This is a waste of money that be being spent on other government priorities . This is an effective policy to deal with this issue . Free markets suffer from externalities costs -LRB- such as pollution -RRB- that are created by only a few actors , but which everyone has to pay . So our whole society pays for the harms resulting from the ridiculously cheap alcohol associated with below-cost marketing and aggressive promotions . Families suffer terribly when a husband , mother or son is an alcoholic or violent drinker . Residents suffer from the anti-social behavior and crime associated with binge-drinking . Business loses millions of productive days work each year ; according to the Institute of Alcoholic Studies , each day around 200,000 British workers turn up to work hung over from the night before . High proportions of hung over workers report problems such as lack of concentration and the inability to work at normal pace . In 2001 there was an attributable 1.2 billion pounds attributed to the loss in economy -LRB- in the UK -RRB- , based only on alcohol attributed absence from work . All of this impacts the society , by losing overall economic wealth -LRB- through loss of productivity -RRB- and having to pour money to alcoholics health treatments . If these individuals in society do not want to stop with their activities , they should at least give back financially . In the state of Washington , we see that the state 's beer , soda and bottled water tax gave the state $ 122 million in revenue in 2009 , helping to close a $ 2.8 billion deficit . California could raise around $ 1.4 billion a year with a marijuana tax . If the people can not stop with their actions , they should reimburse others by paying a higher price for goods to reduce their harm to state finances 	Minimum prices will ensure that drinkers fulfill their responsibility to wider society .
The patenting office stipulates that a successful patent applicant must have found something in nature , isolated it , and found a way to make something useful with it.The genome research of companies satisfies these criteria , so why should it be any different ? The genome companies have invested resources to create intellectual property -LRB- patents -RRB- , which refers to creations of the mind . Under US law includes intellectual property inventions , literary and artistic works , symbols , names , images , designs , and trade secrets . The law states , that any person who invents or discovers any new and useful process , machine , manufacture , or composition of matter , or any new and useful improvement thereof , may obtain a patent . In biomedicine the patentable inventions include materials , such as new drugs or new cell lines , and methods for deriving or growing them , such as extraction or cloning techniques . 	Genes are intellectual property thus patentable
